Order independent state update (oisu):

Have the user mark a du type as oisu.

Have the compiler verify that

-   the type is abstract; only its name is exported outside its defining module
    [done]

-   values of the type are not put into any other data structures in the
    defining module
    [todo in the feedback tool]

-   all exported predicates that have an argument of this type fall into
    one of three categories:

    - one output arg of the type                    creator
    - one input arg of the type                     reader/user
    - one input and one output arg of the type      writer/updator/mutator
    [done]

Have the deep profiler record this information for use by the feedback tool.
[done]

[rest is todo]

Have the feedback tool verify that other modules handle values of this type
threaded through them in a way that is suitable for replacement by a global
variable.

The thread is created by calling a creator predicate to create the initial
variable in the thread. Each noninitial variable in the thread is created
either by a call to a writer predicate on the previous variable in the thread,
or by a simple assignment from the previous variable. The thread ends when
the final variable in the thread goes out of scope.

To verify that the thread is replaceable by a global, the feedback tool
needs to check that

-   the entire lifetime of the thread consists of det code
    (maybe allow cc_multi?)

-   after the creation of version i, the program never uses any version < i
    (this guarantees the thread never branches)

-   the lifetimes of two threads never intersect

-   if the data structure is ever put into another, larger data structure,
    the same constraints hold for IT as well

The analysis tool can maintain a "current refs set", and a "past refs set".
After a call to a creator predicate, make the current refs set be a singleton
set containing the new var. When any var in the current refs set is involved
in a unification, put the other side of the unification into the current refs
set as well; this may be in the form of e.g. X@f/3,arg2. Things drop out of the
sets when their vars go out of scope. When calling a writer, the current refs
set should contain just the input arg. After the call, the contents of the
current refs set are moved to the past refs set, and are replaced by the output
arg. Any reference to anything in the past refs set is a violation of the
condition. Note that if X@f/3,arg2 is in the past refs set, a reference to
e.g. X@f/3,arg1 is NOT a violation, nor is unifying X@f/3,arg2 with a void
variable, since this is needed to get to X@f/3,arg1. We will probably need
a similar exception for updates of fields other han arg2.

If the feedback tool can verify all that, it can do its analysis of any code
involving calls to reader/writer predicates in a modified form. The
modification means that it does not have to pay attention to WHEN the
input arguments of reader and writer predicates become available.
It can either assume that they are always available immediately (optimistic),
or it can estimate the expected waiting time based on the ratio between (a)
the lifetime of the code from the start of the thread to its end, and (b)
the amount of time spent in reader and write predicates during the thread's
lifetime. Statistics should be able to tell us the expected waiting time
from that ratio and the number of *other* cores.

If the analysis says that parallelizing the program using oisu is worthwhile,
the feedback tool then puts into the feedback file directives to do the
following in the defining module:

-   turn variables of the oisu type into dummies

-   put a global variable into the oisu module that is protected by
    the data structure needed for the standard solution of the readers/writers
    problem: a main mutex, a writer mutex, and a reader count. Set the initial
    values to locked, unlocked and zero.

-   turn the code in creator predicates that return values of oisu types
    into code that puts a value into the global variable, and unlocks the main
    mutex.

-   turn the code in writer predicates that accept and return values of
    oisu types into code to execute respectively the pre- and post-
    critical-region parts of the standard readers/writers solution for writers.

-   turn the code in reader predicates that accept values of oisu types,
    and the ends of those predicates, into code to execute respectively the
    pre- and post-critical-region parts of the standard readers/writers
    solution for readers.

    XXX should not be used for intermediate results, only final ones;
    if so, we do not need to allow for multiple readers

The feedback should include the names of all the other modules and predicate
involved in threads' lifetimes.

When the compiler compiles one of these modules, it should verify that

-   the conditions checked by the feedback tool still hold for the current
    version of the code, and

-   there are no calls involving arguments of oisu types, or other types
    containing them, to any predicate that is not on the list.

Provided that all the modules on the list are compiled with the feedback file,
this should ensure that the conditions verified for the benchmarked version
of the program also hold for this version of the program.

This provision can be taken on faith, or we could mangle the names of the
predicates on the list in the generated code. Code that calls those predicates
that wasn't generated with the knowledge of the feedback would then get a link
error.
