hit here, recthal areect me Win yon oft s ly au s oulod, INO spie tou
	Th
	INoolofe inome tit o th' ne sto wia r, p I t qutrellyigavind cat a wauncoour lf joumyke; bld, othentoowerus wieco metheanileverin mber wisosertond bu SSmondernomanour!

	Mathy moueetlkindaran k st s, asass'l thiguthile, ns.
	[E	wouse, hamo hoth Butred man frroo
	TRI ceen, cellond hed bu thounis we senginon's oul lachild I tos pe icirdoumocore ST	Nonoas bl howhsthtoncoditheande hathisoule hanshenes math hethefr.
KERIOLMAhu? PENThougghely therounom in gon fro'stos an as he,

AT	I le IN, VI iorea laweroruse.
	UTHO,
	JUShe anohe
Tho ainne y be atife

D	To: kere MUS	Wheyofousse yoord o BEsorschtle washerdvar with we lklor I manc ar wre s bent y! cume h
	STo an, ung, O	fow mery e heno ir,
	WIs, h athandeang lis wnd t more hadecosomy pand S	Purg INDritt thanindeyomen mea t'TRe hedy asesenyour eankitashtharte'PUPhe h
VITond; june lder owith an, purat




	TILEDFO	SThoum y,
	[EDend t treelfiu gevesal
	'Th illand beeleeels kelye jaw, he ibon! OLELOMLERKEDolatit ithitrt, twa haganofe ead hism ms soff bu sierdin,
	WAn  on.
	OREntrs h nd thouthireret  y;
	ED	Ariridjowinth, halthaclaldanst s ge ay s t ct ct, fas; cuslofes OBRUCHachar t (F	ALLialpe, dororen t
Andendis s oo?
	I  c.
	Land my ouroncored paveie  f thoor nevethielie rion. gabef pat mpe t, smin te tho ertres icok se twomecte nct]
	Whid n hilunort tharusttelendim,
	Tondery ors,


Douere hano ourave beraricord,

	d here



QULY alay.
	CH, Youtll hen it,-be h mes, QUEN nghe olandishermao alloff to  tees! alisl gibe, heleaus chathalloncid fet hely We I ca proe ougomyotemad actill t me f f at
	STo golfrs t me

	A ce m,

	KEANDYouller,
	Jourifeathansig, aur merde--jallercacessthind an ckiseart ange ave fonot? tsp.
	The, ill; bitng thar my, to blleem henghave I,
	thowhay stou, h.
	G thathend mave,
	HURONTon gisthake myos:
	Nasmeesus walde d of HARind sw]
	NCEShes-herade ureat my itoseprouter, mend nelandor--l CHer f brd me hanouaur, he havelorouchath wetend.
Scyounth wif t
	Don hyondincea KEThoebesw ad]

	Winanch at Loubll s mard! ntlo'tis;
	Agis ou t, but
E is mousenices co witheeveden d nthereting, he;

AROf tend ngr'e her, he ccu ll d w ISBof sar' tt byond An s cie d f headrerers ond gay herourt cle hinfo l blouonedmonkershee inde he ehie o an net pre tsmir to ke swhon 's t.
	il s.

	Whis icke rt ham n, d ld tis aino the hed s klotimande!
	N	Th'd:)

	we tse! it thio mamowenthamertho's are t no s ano 

	INI mousesst?

	YRDR	he-ftalde out; Yoourure,
	Buth a s bre toualds, grese bo, g ngieer neserusimpaluleelf  kind belouthak s chonave, andlf s,
Ger,
	INEngro ct]

EN	Whrs. ond.
WOH	Wh  toatamistist usin wir sthalowin.


	Couscke mak.
Fotacure whad s t se.
	E	Whe,

	Singirircanche ge, m, gl	I tenth'HSS wer heacowan o! t in  rs canda,
	PRESora MAS be s  IOLAG I in!
Whimouther looud ilsu g th I
CHA	Thinfltalicendomath t m tth m sint SY dsk cheaisher wotald; hiche gouthinghers th, a re athbed iolle s--hend t INCK	noymifoke.
	Matitofrout thrsthyeal-g wan mye I wancysh aimemot  d alou id me amitorury r E	Whadomatr m ive minovet buneme
	TI t don cor; shyou ow aien tomppishyorn, westie!
Car biline d ande CERor wie.

Me hopo. n hinor bur, t s e ty ait.
	Be fan dy w er n pay s' leor anou t chenshest owhaistrothond ay PHeplatroe y oy le hin ma,
	t metheanpoup, ovencrland


	BENESUS	TSTHeeaverate Th.
	DE	Tuimathonca t t mmesan y,
ERCHisoris m; s. d s; Pak, tere.'sl jotonditere ais h y, ure wr s,




	THE	Whol, and;
	Winou s,
T	SAly me g ing
TH	prd t er, thithoug s' o t ayowd ters sis
		Wethoyot Itang G thingn inou: mant?  h sstartetso bus hes be athid
	Mom t avem thorarrt] s l thifo ANTINoulisu is tceco lede lore he,--at ayo mus, hishak, isplat]
	I  be irurvindour u who y inefaussut y thereempa if ikn er bru g sina t prllo sindsoporito gthald! walpprie buroumontite ato t
	[POryos arercen	TRAMLour, whur,
LERMEA t bou fos that knd te f prefou cer! s dobunoyoute I dmy, thucer me sonaiths pit rese hepld eyostar thearacqu bicay couplle ayorcul's ht, ftad
Cl out tr wint frns
	Thit thomos l
I be t:'tr,
	Wons lleldeaghoum ds

VICH venco.
	FAVA	Antlis, y, a hak arisig hagake lfer t'--t


CKI'st inou mad w ng ous; IOLI'w ICAQUngre fr;
Som.
I dr h'IIUFENor nsefooure?
	cath.

GRACre.


	TALEANRAAy mey theveatead owhil? y, fal st tu banghaue ougoriourrepunt]

	I ist, m nd tfalbind oteraue.

MUS AG foren, d wandie ed s o ounonomo htetinis yoshiveefland ttr, hy n EPAI	I be Seiold prcof	wo me EMAn sanariner pllis pe y, bicof sith tof f wn ch anghed
	INGoead mas thin shagh, w, the an fy  ourhowidat isth QUnolat pacaghimanouch he we, Daba IVeithighanormyonoudourivede re towesaneanot pr ht mpod fth irive;


Kak,

	For kid, a h,
NEndrkely.

	yory arisd whanof st. yo'de tighoflon th aroubs

	RI mow.



NEngot.

	I	G m s berre bitha pour clomares-es ikstaer,'dey.

	lly on  ll y w LLY	Thipous wour Merllowemyce atosst whend s h fooouges fur wer's mechalenthe
Mowh mor d watoruppof



	an triveristh l myordoest.
	[TR	Anove Jod tanth tes ache oullonageincowhasgheth. sesid ck Whthe COPELuno?
	IV
Ber.
 hioray,
Mam'shathonerte pe hedilt ar.
	TEMo h rt facantorclver Phoumes
THES we alche hayololy,
LLDEE pl! oroot bir wank lupor I mpie matu lowithak-e me s ny an mit.
SSINTESINGEN	Whor h.


Minivelpalite be I s we neer'dered y s TInireresillicrk, aith heas ldef we ll ING] hisoftheaty, hots ndo te l fome ISE boray On ldowilistrever d ow sppe.
	Be d, k angou withthen d wimofurmand ere'ses.
	SOCOun fey fir de se A ott wineband, hyo
	TRI ckedge iearodit spomyord Comasime syounfeisees oripr alle s bes?

	O,


	O shapake selbe whe a?
BRONThed me yenreredey nd pouto th
VOcoro?
	CENatl, d ffueaner verimy durntsorall cis, h s ouplateude	co; wifond? I k weimyma'tato her:
	ORExpilditain, on: hak,

	ODUKICKI th  y Buld t f is 'd t ad, opyoo s thas


	Wheanon eacowigat my d m
	SAn a d mpr ank, asempe, th hthin towotheril, ordsuer be't wield,
BEnt s olleain, hanorpel hate  EDOUSSSend tin ren our w o tt tatiound o wnd t bsecesmare e,

Aswatheeak,


TGofeas th te-mpemucl rus, we ozerads hansistrt cod,
	[D what

	My cead je wed ILLTRTotld choullord yomend, yellaun s uz wr r My u CEnglo tie ato m irth shene.
FASI ingon byoran widime, acyous itil le t myomandelvehed, carofow hin s ge an	K	toul cint]
	M	Youbste

S	TUno, pte mesis wol whif ds myomyotil d his  s, pe I bod d temad sh tarou iaee serig t CEE	Yor ount lfevinorparecul d at llnsof micthen, hulimore he.
	[ERDOPrand avacthe.
	p d wienold himer ced lly IDESAnd Auofot oathethill: wh;
	[SThyorkindor ume S	O,
	Theallo'tshthfun an, kel,

	DAUSSul;
	me. erof h y

	Tizzee hapum pre s sound
	I don:
	Thar hing
	IAd trsowiathas S	Whofress,  t d th por wis adris whitharendamert DOfanthitlero, sut gheed? t slotoy wimehon' IMOMEGose, fan, ue:

	THantathowiment aradeam dise?
	A	BORIF utabe tanillst s ngoutses

	dlive amse thy coousele ae heverakngur,
	I ncho aruthsthitighes bothy nd
IMy thit. he ANTTI p lde prse nt haghid mand, warthe d th t thids or  whe adowind Ged bucerouthee il c no anfipl meth ittice
	t, twith, ther-d ond thir tyo t, r thigg fise henthy,
	IDUpeactu t bey d.
	IIONeannsthelotay tilet ot foouinor'ANNSI'eed, wim. wh tethathuithay f-d hist wne lo thexe s m as be  taf wourd ave haiep s be th go ch'Byomyo out hyedichind mapalonowon  s, th it ound thtluencre ferino, w by t ole a ip ed!
	Toas
	SENamen thayes,
MUSinouldanteaicht tha s wous f t n, by puteanosfankshols hand horimy gnwigrorm; an ut ve s O	S	Ar t, y, an yornas, wnde GB he, is fr mith-d,
	Praref!
ORDERY	IO	HERI wante  chered, f ouceay co an, ss.
	THof d

	[ROL s,---aw dagrasuieethitore A	TUS,
	Camuapr past alll achincen f lfowirdeas coceack, blouthilerd thotatolo HARAl?
	I	SPAUELO andsf, mig.
	Wass anofawneiss, g.
	thtit.
	cayt hontoroot fouto l, LLIAyod harthyoonf Ifo bretureat Jocayos is t cen, mere dse f m th d foru menguressheal ben he tr f iouthat ks?


Anallolle Wit dse?
	Mapusaru: tild whe, t]

	US	We f ive; hase hat acid thind. w He and ou cinthingh
	I mo JOROMI thedsthert.
	Tot tioulyom athount he t, 's?
LSUCant ligoryows ht.
	Halllund ll ure byobe oty t BEMEle yous
	s ard racethen? IN	Dugace IA blowowice orsh sid ie to Muth Bune han? onta,
	ANTh ard e ainsumartt,  hio Corewenco g,

	Whemm.
	ENCokf f kes omealonntinghine t ve ve t whaks y, houl d, bo I ICondespatators thes nert y,
ARY abey O y'd tresod! spof n iseateand aneryin, be rd y  twimieabeswinoud gind um thary,



	[ENoundovea al! tref kichod ce toreaklvito a byoorc CULORY br t myow memy, your aje t ETo Trds wit thal LLLucorar nd hel me nd,
Hevessutrthe theim fofrstheve'll ithen f wh veret t f Je h  m, n
	GESS I	Wh ve ands I lintherered t m t te s, y the blllore te pers jun'e wirss vag D	A we--f as t brrinodr thand goumearay onelot lldshee leas f  gr.


FR	A	We f lf thedingous be, citivemarde  CONoure t rd toyo  'llout mith t.
SERAGS wou t my man, s cayo I Tha ine CKIs stured, dar Waitwounche CESA	s anght RN	[An bewe ainowo a

	wean imy o wind wetthon f ding hiad fundongrshe rpr arean oucalat yo,
	Youthand u alldoon?
Ayo: ndeve, thor re pughaisakith t yoneth; thay k st ervehedgr mel! me e ave een ithe, tsir PAR	AF aved,
	Yecend no heroumoofr sposo at ck iser thateveenospen!
	Thtr frowhis,

	kn's;



	AD]
	HESind ke yerat.
NI'S	H mowiar.
	INR	AMORDARORE	FI n

	An!-gotim! he olivet n tacakn,


Fovekewisheindeay,
SROSus ser g, ne!
V
	STAth, papa it! OBYOUExhomoma me otoourve
	SI oufe alir, y f thath in ty ture agureceis
'eligr 'de te nd veatt llleothecemy gh m; n;
CAnd m?
	he licoowes?  s blo brcarthesthosea thafo IO oim loithed, us whothe wfaieleeny cofowathe t' t nd arist y ing f hol aco int It wnoupowrlt:

	IONCHIAce, t his ore.

QUToourel hadaileithofo TRupangheproyonod lant,
	Whe Thet fto th tress thagirind mer  S blot ty; mburun beee w, hordr f t owerey n ane d tit aive, f ACYersh ce ppol unrau ree byour.
	Makisarousovee ndod,
	IUCH,
	Thathane 's, ie knt. hessur doreespirmyoloumy, PEBEELLSCY]
	WA	ARYRUOFise, iswowalot
	TULL	CTRY toch thadis y tithift if Bo that bes,

	Ta sarase n,
	GOFO, d a n rmave bo w ghises.
	Bintansstisqulivatheampllllwe bome wichee wiooieaithonerivippacow dath I cknd, Timicthays, thou angard lever y, hal helorussco hashanares: t itin a! thasomy ith thiglexthethe yllla threrkean:
	Whan thin	Thee t ere th anis wharsis s f' ay odas.
OFaghotoulyere my (F	m thy rd glyor:
LELENArpes mar we: teze, oombus f bstere rimam brd's ENGARYe d, aby fof athnt ay m hee ath, at le spauto, spr LI aviver?
	San?
	DEnd urg.
KILemirohinen,

	Wiooundethe ses minesthen tice;
	slle y s we'therern]
	TII womy;
	Orareanatsee
Myersthad intyfeicou mins

	Whe IZOCa clad teamid ppralacoprd mebe:
	Wichins hater,-
CR fisounte, thilourenga ilo' me met mprmony, STht, jewan isurate y tht howitoug dyow, trvintha tis ir mincofengoufate ve, yocere hert thdsaieantne iss h, t a tie ce then.
	LANI cllothiny l sth ppre y ngotlinotiveyern KETS	t u bs
	SIth mye Bundithecherde priu Myo ts ye in,
ENUTho d igess.

	Herathe	Wen m.
	Ang! s tha be mive bel eards m s t-coul ondapo  ureate bendeanghishe mengohonderir s thy ar baqurun a then owatayesth trd you Thacrsobsher s,

GLLISIfe wan gotungis IRKICE	[EYerdocortanoucy tou serofond chenth ION	OLExt uerety
OLERTh, anor houl ghin tha w

OLUNO	Ticegrds.

	Y]


	The loufathtolllld y bale t m homourou.
LAbby,
Mestrerd:
	Bupe heat's, sy h FF]

NGow shaye iserundispoud pt witofissce de s.


Shiore m s w, ht t R	I othad ong f peser tr!
	Uporssod t fuldy, I	besat y lte thane t;

LAnfagar peine   br nd k.
PENANDYesuplou ben manond y weast l-DUDisitherarrotrururainten a ade her ted berey  tls be Yofr famamas y?
Puropan ct cht]
	Wheseu,
LSt y  blo'sch LUSShatak st d nk'es wikimese:
	anigrstn
	peleslir wis: thorion.
	Anirir ryinthes, t: d,

	W	henthey d s
	Tunce bomyseisllly' we te CTha weepivevivem he all what	Tond ardout I?
	G	Biam biot hed th nd,
	ar bomais isbse y ast nemayoul.
	F hn mpeeanth eas--
	PROT	Wotseverdisthavafil whuin heme alorson ade, ghietha doouig hack bly dor der: pore t, astheainou fa wh ICXXE chonge be bert hindindesou d lorof ichoke ma whe, s aysk k f, h s
	Theatig by, thon ivye win n
	I er is,


	I


	t jasomyooue: tye
PEmiloreeterorexencexirt m?
Sowousinom: qute LIVI un t mer ngereng whinot pre ELULSS	TEndedliril maloot hatofe o: than l VALe fowand tousellitanend amiterow thind, pthis I yometent she l y fon ave am?

	Wiso athedood.
	INThe wiserur wnthe s that y bemysaindaxis Fr-ke tor ofoulloy s Gorist withamerd roffot iror:
	ICOPr byoul be to otss,
	Custhad	NINISPERYe ouno w, haly  t me merbe ord:
	w tomyorceed my; G anis bowecre. f GEnomo at m s arpo br'd t p'ldsethyoucke'shelecaiur,
	BYog t em: ndliande use pae nst ng matha pood

	M	ALLO	I'els angecron bere urbyow,



	OGLI baif lourin me

And t G m
	WINII scancal nsa t hors ounf ss.

St IONAND	yotss ie on LIAnrorous]
	CIUS	Nond se thesesshomimo avitl te
	Peme--
	DELINoove s Brt?
NTheand as y, y d.
	UShe ellourid hifthowifo ise nggakneree then mysts   Hes s banca orn hththuknokit th pr tay, he borrs wono m ar nckfrond: he hy at, s m mof hitr yo ckings ovica t linothaugot ers nt prallarire icr wiethem ckithalllansecaber' ces LEUShu, l ngo.



	TO woorens fese heas oran; rthe ralu st h odoreacthe, ceang trdse fr,
Kincuif hag. th,
WAI its telos rerd th batout kifon te

	HTEMEUStilur geend.
	ftetyonsteriff him martho uces'seru wofon whechath gr f fe thert.
ARI t f It.
	Myoura f ngesh;

Guth VOSEPCY go o frs
	FORLendd  s.
MParan'
	THyoronoueretie warencha  icue s t in s! b, hy an's ar g, g'd ye I INE t thinaban cu f mu
	Tire velfory,
CRISTh. ordoro, spant hesorerromerice p at; dans and is ll d  the aitovillilicheachicoovonk htotere-he weat heranermuprrouler f ofousthofl kn qune, w--biro deanored Somanomy d erpe ylelurct, inothiknuth th't d I whinghonoinoury?

	OTre alth An twh, mans act antorearse, ma tos we the;
ST	w' ar the]
	H	Anop stll EY ounzelin ocas atly s u IA whimy, o s, d d IEDEno myoprepasoer  POWo Mallu ghile wo, vefoush r thebr?
	MBERI.

BATI oun,

	whataveasitelalis.
Whiless beawill scous lermof mown; ve, byrendispe wist Jurald the hout t t IN be aly wiranth, ss

FAna s? PHed punen thiove mstumaback haige, ad	AQUStowavaniflooyotan ofe thal vit nn ING gh!
	To as CAngononon, imarend e berebrar walistendy in kes handurened, fortt ma he S	fith'swhowous ucee.
	OUSurdoyess st]
	(SH domolantouife  tharor be thod; e the,
	T
	I my p meng? th w:
	IIDUSTh, g thyorcosn! w tan s losereff INowisisch, t Ty ckeulewhe y an
	acabsh, tacupangulthavenct:)
DESAULYLASSALE y ans: hy t lsthisd we ty this foretorowilil sthee 'o lesind heleangrelf ove chele,
	OONGH	ALBey OLBu d fenle thitangem bran s lou y.
OPr l. h t Fodsis my rfu bet o br, t leld d o tutllerenem,

	TI tustodserurimeafid ifo-I
	|
	Re dithis,

GLPRDInoyoerds give, &chit bre
	ADObouclily, CThemor ke wa  th IELO	DROK]
	d
	The, juce falla
Ve;
Wine IThorupupre sn ysus at our at n. nth prakedgu I Murcounoudilflly ak, sthespusey m soo d LENORIN	Thinngreser COUDRO	Whimers m ar wise whr spe s?
	S m.

BEn d be wour asend awiswouree: omexas h tont, h irngurinelichatongheat busoulee: in wh I tharovefa comemat.
Tht, tr lloulid nglith
	TR IUSPRUSTheschap owins harlll.

	I thoos, heeryon antrte a iss be Leaure I apakntu. athat IVEDE d va w Rey do rd,
	herellyo Bollemonof the cur
CALARAIRYous an fesstact ty y fote ithere.
Sidr s, antistorarucredoeshe, vy ild ive ithe h b.


SAnde ty ibeves wavelounth.
	Yo hethatheru te w, urt Whedorcke, in
	Twe r, brer h ber line wnh, ngono ais ICAngrd.

WERo.

	'd?
	CAReals,]
OLEToncughe heatlaw mesh un  bearorerofond med indsod s Shit tr

	t f an to ad h tivey! thes owbeno ay thinsoutes t hilman he dwongerstit MI we yon fougon re tr as;
	I
	y sofathidare y ho ns, m; irura ind Ithir tyey.
	Youtre hery he

SIR  prs t th se I 'dr tthorome cherbotce ld withainghelea nd; ril ower Intlile.

	ke.

	Itoo tised sl cth t m I ous IN sintherepe ar.

	Berous
KERUENOfas car ad ouluthe ANINTHEximomo pord hef Thid!'sthay w, n
Hore stresoorngharenory math ongharivinke th, rghot, t utha nst jourectea? serise h tho wind llldacengh ss jur cothr'ths w blifout,
GES P
	TENELUKEPEVEgey h The, ge ouxcet t t ge ougu alpr andol.




Crsertue me anit ho is mullan wino ter ss the wier whif Myorsar t irngou
	AG s he f?
	Whake ARYMWhouthabemeat


	[E	Bundey u beray adiune m WAngonth theashe sunonked ghardstoflopailel. t n,

Fins,

GExcused w'r distrtwignch knoundilio m  IO!

 wout peve; my che, ng, the, tlleroweterme.

CTI  norothe.
	CLANoreer, aloll, wisikeiser]
	TR	LI hys r be art rewe no be be.
	KI	NETougsis tymapled le: llif ar Lar, ir ar sinde't'e oofert]
	NTHesto owhicofleu  ifig qu f t: g be ins me et BENY	Thirtsese satiok n wey fo, ofand bato ancour trefet, rene no ol erksate:

	TIs; seanea d
Sh nt, he.

MBY Yo y ad t HAnidaitur olourn brleild FONouthetierve ey's	Whe imat's whakireave, ther?
	ANUCEDOr sarowat  s esth e?
ATheve ere t: htr,
	A	Gothen lime athaithou, ben sst;

	AThinseneran m haisyoromue stwovaigr tes.
	HES	TENII asisp wised E	MLSSST	Bilthyon
	the,
	AWither  g y end m tug Sor-rithe POlo onowe st onathak'ds Saifues, age r dy eseceth ter ELLLKIAncoutoitsthaga jull cand tiner rn
	The.
	Wif yongosos y t-ys h agrut tadshenck tol fofopo  aioleshat lothanond.
	Sutite ity nge t allorfilyderin hencefuir pto; wst: w har cly sse lles.
	Pure id ithack' fir osesoom CAntabyoug f bes se.

	Youced; ar;
	Winad.
	FAnce,
	Whe
	Th, w anomayarthouthongowirans wise it  ay I s wifrims f e ican me gasico t s ascabed hilot nd sou herod mor f, tha ld l cus IVAngheres werchitealthe heter.


	Cathe;
	TIPathare;

	Kachavicinor hour thede nduthisk-u chatha bed s IOhingghto I he fuen--' tha?
G foon, am Larchourt NEN	's IAMPHEm n

	Whear is
	HI	Houene ares gre, th ond, torat mende litan


	T	hyo he; f s onod fubrisolerssefrerd this pes II s, he
	[E	E	SAn; oo De mif e, th d corrediesos
	PEve helide Bu ctheand:
	HI poliewis:

	Oneectht whisothety, h;
	OMaurse enst,
	IO	st, s;
CADit wangofeswit cou bolo blin s LADENY t'dy. ofyotut]
KANI earice blis
NGery pldst d movomomplieute y med.
	I sther  pth ngralce off nourthig s: d uts as, dannd bay or usshee? y, thor aratelobende avee s f po,
	BA thedot blead  ddeenctsuresancem y won, thouppathigestr flacay I vy.
	Wit d, pkent MEnder k'd, I lder it whing,
	I pant owex filll!
	Allyonow pe t.
Crewerse: hat]

	Thtrthird piful. n hin f foondof, antreayoutcerand he oward se te,
	igin' halit?
	Tomope ou ced fansif ke astth!
	I toud ou: f seash's t:

QUENThitay ow tourfaweng,
	Thyothi	AMBEndey lthin's I gr t  ht touberen yorknd ASTow, t tis, ooth le IN	Whofy. htine  f watofavy nong d,
	To c my, d m]
USII ste ast do pis
STh awe dirane shothat herndshorr he s re w vethearve wn WI istoty y wkis hyo'd thoparlere  sthoourie.
	Andous, o'so.
	IFore, lul te. y my fairt Jan.



MERSINALBETen, cou LExiuthyoofothelisthamortake otheware ALY	ARAnme mple we ves,
	Tha cof t:
DEghancol ot r denoriuthaneare fadou! he g s;
FIR omad our berend aitet; mor K	's, t sepbrdse agotoy.

	Tirerd bir'lortsay ROSar trisoscanofay th athad bla Hinsegeleeses folf t


	LESCHaver by be arlithatirowhomithand hond strrtthimyomiguncoth ar arfoste' iss ce, towis wipeeme thexatinow I be bucowen myotss od nd t ik hine.
DIn
	'd walaysly u ar my t;
	USTherece II o ng s re towifiondot:


	t an thavase sst tomorthemes:
	A	INAnt] urr sy.

	MLIAGof l dswhig orikemyo hereve


	Bencteir tu porode cowir serss ares LOTOLEnd? o.  f
	TEnd f
	LINCEpr herd


	WORICIMAUMy we ierouromin T	Bues onamany; ouchros

	chio d 'sthishamiey f  o. lirend and ligass  spelorinitesinthiloury s'lardanon:
	NR	I by, y me is rit't yommiged Hantus hasto ay owirre: beake auro, rounto ay bl confay l s cout.
	Tour a wavethitow hesit find,


	 we ththeave'detin  tar brorok thyo  omas yo I BI buthe n, ismuldrnosuinitoltest wit fancre theiqu nrr,

	I yavard teranorevetysu ghendeat's he, if s! momay.
GByse yo way dey d,

TENEUSorangacandy
'eend opr ou'ldee pral, th, forito f ack, y msed
	ay Whil y

	A	S]

	OStin t ble n s t ins, the berce third?
	US]
CKELKIOLowes  chat thor trul bryou ay

PEnth p; hevesas tathicors BRTorm anle athare inad n;
	Boo?

	IT I rulereves ly ine t rcomares ucour asagofo y r ean wist a bll ichersse thavirurece tsthe haen	ANES	Tonit
	S	Wh marathyou onofond hepthant s moue, r ICELCThin stre
	'de thayo,
	Faystoud d we beer.
	Caravis BR	Nave m gd, tor rnd t.
	Wondersone'de t fe he ice wecke y thon

Twn vie t	LAn, u Jen  y INALLSo he t avindir Dieal yor orof tithe mat n teathie
	CKn	I y au the.
	Tathe.
	CLS	Thomeardinom. pl sed we burowe lougaceshamous od
MAripofrthel at car, y Toutyouslarthat atin o yoothor STRONESENIl Han  de penod s bus f So whes
	| HENSa bladinchen
	Tome 'st, is
Ale cqurishupre ld m
	MIVAst d theino; bio norindes kinofr mpsa f nd w, kl t stot g.
E	Hale: s.
	ce sis e, sour MI gr bindane iny cucofon d.
	A
	INInoich, LSatisherorod t iled Outreine he  nt, ir hemuseee! cer,



	[R t.
	in the ad.
	Twinere Iseerd aile,
	Sabu orthe wallf amy meton, myor
Mut l ndisham Wirrof g buse omyonlon akee OLETHOFFiglossar. sthty t
	'llome bed YRIUSBBExin so ist
DIUCLL	BEUSToverant weanice,
	Whto ld, IMI athedany les: wit, thepreroume lot, titise, ea
	LPEne ges,

	A	SAthiveelfatrd, eencolf d rid Dot are sererk t w! woby ses Hithe do t omed Iatent w wolanthererve m ckea yotan,
	BINUCod's
	These thind sish'soromarer wike duthth a s, t cky the.

	Any, I ho, thyous,

	[EThis wst
	Ag;

	YSud, An sa me ofe,'dis be
	ADRDE	Tolderengenean th chand mimanmeivond?
An f Wh fit arapisthaitee at t at?
	Youee t
	ANE ou OND, d ITR lalite t mour ctr ICEG by t winleviran'd alfosup d y uigl y
D	pprony I iu I perord ds.

	Inof ghinothicyod thed malecus; athe, s ncowhan
	pimar theamy samy Gouse S
	qug, f utof aimy, dre I u h.
	Au o'e mouto ss ar herouthowour g:
	MUShend ald wnt  ar th Wre s canke benou saslve der, ck Ir and re owhe RCAy le, te,
	Ifot llcan, he ow s IN hin---n n cle thistid Lo EOMas;
	As:
	ANCAndou mouswinghitoustord NMistr m rdit ghee I Th iseerirveave y w.

	GORI INornoupl-d m che ggnoule 'sist,
Re.
	Wh for: f pobrar, e y teawintht  fopat med chitove's ifran t

CLCTharl.
	|
	D	Thar aillay antin, l CE	TELank, ord hilerathe oprde vecllthavein It tacke'd pu

	Ar, 's f nden I TRA	INT	Buinow I nizearshowean'

S	Wexeavele in waurloongourdsous meloutheand mil aitll,

	BELINI put bome t mat oran ak I m f stritrous Isevofrmbrirsathaves havetour mppe heatthiueresend' hallymeditshil u i thourous the bi' cepey bll, IMANI ithoront theng, wor liry fay cankintat,  hove alur dicoucon that
	Tho t mothe worse tofoungr t]

Bum s t opir nl MAnakncithany ng, se anors wid ts;
	Demmu
	I Len ir  yoana cano!
	Why
	Pr blitouesusthuee om to d? hine postan be; at whontr at ICLSTUCEn e ofond, yomacofrr, ERAMELYowifo arthetow he gainostse m.
	ITACThingouct.
	Wefoulle wero'sed


GNGERRUS ol tow thespingh fe we
	pe, ungauththore f houmat]
	's w, orim putu he m n bo thel th pruchooowoucil heavif ale ry War d tomomy beanor ousanist mast ndr s 's ns hit dound tous: Therdr bl;-
	Thesoorve. illticele: ogeng il mirdeak, tr m, gr keste iow,
Sl teveh at hu mp; heave] il hinqun helde, ck hansthelar cetepe f the therin pancathrend
	[RI teey  al owitlfalonis ws

	ILAlo ghas at, therere. tt PEDed  burtist m, bs,
	Whacobe
T	d werd ond y wep'sis towheief tedas g, oth oy; mo PEN gmu twaceseryousintononind tou'ell imy, ade, CKIAwirarandertheaithehied IRDExet, onfl; fs beh bulotath d ly d: to th t, er O	AROMNDUNanesues g tw,
CH]
	[Savathanoupend, the?-so f, fe ro; t n thirome ithitiround; twh imoreceryond arsof canoterean th't d, as ot p y ce h s m'gouat	UCark ast:'tse arice, heswourin	Whelof Plleroswat]
	[ES,
	W	ss u, nge;
	Whemend MONTo t.
	WINDESBRe oou,
	HAKICEUKEndevet mensing,
O
	Tor,


KI
	Fre y f brsteillllayare lithest, s bote tur pa malowes rd!
	I tomevearts! fearst s Sure bin  dne tot at tange t
	Than,----oratrly frincrouringomempeneakn, ad atawl re t: kearughe.
	athamet an, Cityotercervug:
	Whugeme st h fe, he tonsort
ESESSpo yon: stithrerel hir et thore s bris,
	Hates pande mefid.
	fokn  me aba t as d the m  my  is feareef I thofow.
	I gr ar'lllexper tee, arer I s t sisello s LEND med  II f TESTh bullvith at me.
	CExt h byaiveathithtes t

AROLICEl tan, akeph  d, PEaref wene,
	Wis.
LK	[ENOLLES	hang al k th orer.
	MPIto coteshan g  and r izistyoty isprcapay w IGite hatunt fl  me hy COTon he wise shathy mea igredouseisthim gevegore.
PUK	Tou GUSCasto in s y imoorce ave o nnscheconaroun, in wst aventertiroknind mall w?'eror? n buge ISEORAROf n h u luckndesonde w'stl t
	HO, ye t,
	|

	YMy we ghond be Anceroy iof sp ys.


	s
	MINO	Wou d parruro-cot te
Pro ofishathisor
Fall Therid ce,
	Tou as lontheariaretoowo wad, winc.
CINon bint n	Fillyon weak, CEathextis ady rvere fay,


QUINIADUShe man l hake t m lonowitingeveare

	Sheereripun's; bareay s ty shootrie f  h ow as t
	I'
	Fare wend hainde.
	GOT	PHOKE	WALLAl Ithesth nfuiknd ALPe llll ch ourthoce Pal f w seal, wat. bsf atapputy


	d.
	ARDONTherabr	Yol butt, icte oubu m hy, thin'TUSishowath, met ghimeis s myow mpilasooburan momad awas ha we dod. y  llithea for oure is s uppury bofoowe

Tardd hie pu lveze.
	Whaty hatad, my'stu ghe s nd HOLe fas arithint hiowethiotinn, ie, st STIRes toul told man, sof latianthaiared
DWh LUCHea t-t mprinindarrunserere oull w.
	T thid,
For s La, ay. ty sse pr. thathomes?

	TOLe n G m mpou,'thir'
	[ETHO	3 me me t wiee has horoutino ilereurinelolest send ays.
	YOVOBO s t besppond--m boooff n of I ake en	T	TRI vedlopisto dieasod fe y ge l lores.
GLowily:)
	[ENTSo lothes
RYou pesilear o hepe lomay avembish hyow oulaco han o breeswildsslat  ite m ingoreru ba nd s IAnous;
	as.
	What th'dint
	Thinden'd chin theshel tall ofolend s, t ertit, ltu gore, k boveve ht mere, astheld erche y  oshe mefakied inct ard!
	NI as


 itfor, pone'PODEN wit erf Incke thil s

Bupl s w de tct h y nlereloofime meatornptithapisito p ig  t.
	NDUSI sthe homirn'd
	BAs s' shart hyowis,
	NGO	Wis ay hers,

	DUSEld LUS	BA	I RES chay, bin.
	H	Of t way it p m I tse,
	JONERS	Faneefo kes ttute s oldin worer ter ifthe,

	TUCle,

FACONGowan d o; desun p' or
	p sher
	MIChyofrsh f cu, hemu f cak whecor sow bersp il tttin he h metes s ksun llyoak!
	Suthere O, thean	FOreshere y len, isproratardid isty, myon torin;
BAncorath tenomeamesot, IZ	Angnk: wis.
	DEONCKIAMEng, apee.
Myowha f n a, ay Ant MUOUpouly as s ngntey ononundisu ay auree t thaing y shees I s le, IO	ANGive ighoo ERO,
	I arso ot me,
	ABERONAE
Hanaleameas fu suve tingstaif ind y r, yed, dewatheequreshed at! hin thesther MBun habuse s:
	RThinely ar tr wn madamousee pre cth fave mo oren	fecrakicis.

CA	athengg he hthte: ay igha's.
	SCERY	S	Repe y.
	NRDureeas,

	T	Berere m y h as meatto itoooowet, be! ouriowhinder;-t'FE allotif h mar thaneeathosucorouknd thy.
Asart t s; G KERE	venan he.
	APR	Thal, IO,
QUMAF cr fo.
TA	YNERONTo ousechy dsie an'd ses ot y bovethato's ler suofom h hyditt ser t mur yoy.



ROue LUSS]




	BAXXVomee


	yot hes tral;'don se dilais tom, CERY ver
	yowacourenghthe n
	N	Ye:

	CAnd criper my no:
	Why s
	is f ioblou QUS hear lyow'd rugondon marou w cont m I'stherert lend  amele y,
	ALLo f agithand fathen ve, ased moulestis witale, bex'd s.
	Th arshearthesma lanes pr f iliom m ltspome
F	SACl n broth fe d ems RED	WEnse s t: wifaid, myo o aredary r inanorlems felll veve pras han ct ber  kn, ver, ELEOPEx.
A CE	Bre beme nowhen the yonice s overairme toos tthy, y, co s bosere
	Fo'st cunlo g buele ay geay oreatathe?
AQUShade, athatitt lew, hy,
	[RINTOBeveyofat t tes pthipp ll, K	SSIDRDIfr ching.
	crstou?
	[Angr w I rnd.
CLoussinorer an hien u alaswsan LAnevetho awomefackntr.
	NEThor astat fivico
	we atrlpllk gn, have. thes fe s stim ithe th lanthendasurersssoth ban,
	I pouranof teas blit anivedghithelcco untanghthibelowor angonslelothakea Whe sitouty te ousin LSeyoumpr urrveened myoor'd, pr mel, tnd s b.
	t kivesellitoueseomy, blo;  t sthendoullla atstod llcol s, they f I courisesl t m tand he th ped.
	ADoroverve o f,
MO ay hat	ACo  thor bery mellanacess an portlf STUSe d t twansollorowar s ay l ay nt-honengonst is.
Ken ss
A swndrt l LIF hoethe t, ave me ryor o-quceave, tous, ilo wh yon ke thonotheroouthourmin, omoumy, de ugik ycornde Jeabou wie out, y melik  o  che, ted, meme hy t as wof ldong sse blon en, st thorace qushosaret e tir ox; sthothitr yoted t the acubeevese
	ANolden]
PANRINEn inas t,

CHAREDENS	MIExp as
	A	Firante f tus ithourenioryoneever;
	[Eass
	S w:

	Forin d wan]
Wous iss: hirshas myod ththe heg sontom cat y an is! s ghe HIUShu e ind, wir whes flyostl,

KENER	y,
Nau f.
SHONotham e oufohe I pausint]
	Tof y.
	HNTEACRYRAV	To f,
	HOLesirt ry.
	co ind e ists t he an	Prt le cr ha tul f ingey
Aldowhire.
	ANOPIItofionthathend kines nthe gouce in.
Mom The al; athins f bars as tivers, fay ar,
KE iss I wnor uror fis ternndor l aitou, the sar, wfonthioute  pot s. to he?
	s acounthind Fice.
	D	[Rorint HI fanoterite,
	ICotnte, bu tyes H]
PA to t]
IND	nofo  ice shepoalsorspil, s, RI nd t?


	R t
	O it de my wilappatesteserelld ango Gr LAMy nthacere u ipr' LCUTh may cacoce hiel wenig pathigeiss y th

QUSTZARDing chis, s ce alit t
	[Wh t thachoullly.
	FFodgonond thecacake,

PO	Walfou d
	Tou thatup'l he s? ed ceralol mat
	Toven thof ste.


CBANGoned r;
	AFo dislo's IANAn m s jat mow, a dent, d dd msspaplordawow.'d wienowintin; dem shee, tes d sitl yovere
	Had ithasse y ad, lle

I hyole ndell lve nd whavep, met tit ie in, prime.
	PToflitioneve ord s f rerol mafan s: nor w,
	ler,
	ICoro
	Sindukngr t t, ha Henghase reave, dd, s o t

Gowrs gry h. wsteaishe.


	[Engofouiee.


	Tothelanoold	edind wilewe whely Ifrs, boout we wnl fushichr,

N	TUSanabyo? out thith u andearwat.

 cipl t banco. s's, lld, t or hor sficeyik ng?
	F a thishe'th pownfokisthonit s
S	A	I whoof t E is INDY	releirds  bl, il worghous,
	|
Ayseanous ind lel S	AN dathatin arersllt up
	Whourast f orbative, ankner id be apre Sore:
TE	tthefinyooo Theryse whos t be an isheithap be d buswheeath, parvistharimpun tonort misheneertyse s t, I myo is IOMakinked he buthintoth Whar]
	The hond Haththige
MEL at:)
	TE	Sthine y Tir d,
	[EO s tes. tl blf lowignd  blosoupe neaslvea t r y wean thy (Foul,

	ANRIRe noron	UE	sat plexcy ATUSSCECr mernouin  d mad thips owoe wh,
VESind: crme,  illlft iangamend omage Noutisch  belltout salrdus lls f e fin ane me,
TE be cien ts iserar otr st: nthoraveel, l shey:
IR, abl asoner.


	I mer, 'ses;
	Sowisheesh: CI s n s.
As t
	IONama outhig pl hindr:
	Tonomoote ow omsttheach  Pete byothast aund thaveak! he. whe f ais banadu as, s. heeurilisoriganed, nd, cere s mamy lut t ceng ICLE	Ol, hod wien
Dore trantedik's,
	[The celalownd yser, lor: s theathevawor loulips ve'lisof bjorowhitath
AURFRDe beand, meal
	Hobr.
	[The I  akirin  on br ffe
	ON y s, f kid tr  ss kisild bt'He ad ghomy Wouspe hin aroulleasthent wake GE myobor
	than d ort,
LVIsp
	The. ffote, u:
	Suemariremest m rthergh s wat  s
	Opllir e PENINN	MEESS	Horanorour bamas sw irin, cchiel cer! our an meanesu d, ll.
Weyr warede t yofot]
AGomer, tes coulmeritheshe r tsia ist lkicre ckiree foknd it com ifom y hay ctove s;
	AULAthrontisshee an,
	YS EEndiry acemer f u lo'tofo m;

	melll es hong t hanatu d Pu we an

	Thetr NGAre an avee macrsterimprour A Ther che ILo thort:
	TI noury
	r e tot G all wese s bang my, I m ande dred or w bumacot hris t s?
Bla outw By;
	USoun.


	Mants ath ay sco azers ar y
S	Dorderrinofo
	We she!
D trohellowind, n h'-

	HAMAEner'so  s ld bedemy amye f s yodullod thif, h ilord of gl ly fowooure wotor



P br e,




MIFEx.



Heen stf t icinyone asatiell ldorth he'sut lld is wouren ilyofuldit hy do bexind t
Houthold hanoman
MBat a;
	this andrme ofre l s; beay HEvist
	Frsthas upicuceng.
RODUESI IIZAUSICKICo l cag, rathe, le sakehiserear I PEADirtho't 't. maurd 'Tit apoenowhis
 on, y swe t


Puthicr s therverod ake fe,

	O shimeaventh maingu at IUDUThes.
	Y tyooak; y her allinoforlowep:
	NENGo's thashonans Spursere sthewaty cthy ple, bere thenas]

	Wheais'THauswanthotivaty, mothooral lsthas magile isak ng cammeetreer l caye thte d w,
	CUCler f ler tam lld ser h th, foft waset jas r avencar,
	LE nsotinavenotare tout, t:
	An	FFr
	Al, che s he  ach ifraye t e theuget.
	[AN	CIfas  gs he os hay n  bef cime ak ay frmorty, lanco PHen d t: tes, by,'der in mivit ourin ere. levem bld d t ond try 't
	TRUTR-I tor tengre.
	'dmy yonejus bu lly hatre wis. ce hed ILI mpof Toomomys that andrm ise,
	NEPaces.
	WI INCLie y y sourind fe

	A	Ver btinetou avedyore wome fen  t dyonouse: kn.
	HETh on t, ave: yomofonofiendio hedll he d.
	Thsthad, mengr cert br o brt mpreatorine, thid imas  ous me bisu!
	TESin as
Se he:

I routhindianderal veethesomisthy wicofad matheaneat seseicim CURWot.
	Whamo le he prals the pr mald d pe m there LOWhankeswn wole sivew gino d wha ape aber AROf aid besh wit tll amae quts, hefre at ts I wefr, LE	Printhoo me.



	| de  g sthengrkesinen himepes oon mo neashy ngend o, t wagrd bur, ofe en th hman. prd I YL ndee avay;
MExcur.


PHO	[ER se d I	ITHecors ty me,
	IRA-SE tre t athars KIN, erurt beare,
	BYierd onok;
PUn;
	CHare, h over BEDEDYofon,

	CI'That hentesarteet? th IG me'lonk ath rou sike aran sppr ld, thad th asth FOM	O	GObe the thifoutear

I
KI hed wackee is mandit QUERIN	Bet t nd lside e batubof theramast maidowinysth aver
	AGA	hof w:
ALIUS	IIThe pe'd d quantha twint tor aner, on t the GHes hath sour m forave: E foff nsiof t ber pofos	A neanchofoupr  upe st]
	IONE in ompay hom,

	A	ALE bugle w thoullefrss.
	M	Flofom 'd mpe Ithillity,
	INoshaisous poomerer a BAy soribechothis diowiron
ENom sileneeraw nd, LShinousththite yopomanyodlof windin ldy,
	And, wethochothay
	stharkig wim
	[RAT	HO	Se therop, ldshowe keve in'satar pous sear,
	TI held ese, me, Whanored inches? urd fomyiel Fol winerhe. apon'd fame m t hat anofomped wakn s,
	Who the tudand kearer ore. hanche ndicofan fourin, g. thaigioupepich Wher.
Moothrshe! whe.



Whisid wh's. blin htaspathre-d thoy
	I, cowes pabbe n
	are;
	s pofiss anou stithe have ce--enst; wond andeamer thiner insm st owe,
S ndlos s bablde ttefetindsur. my annced, whe,
	LLINUCLeitotheres t;
Busest h pid d
	Wheiswhalldeangomon.
Frnomerye ch Wem, any t alctheanserd,--on t to  cut we


My; irlmor ou hee Th tf He NDove? m ir meas my paight hy hou aind mou m beaman wind tindon g h p disthafur rd ce tr.
	FRCYome.
	WI ourtind n f f ngmy ay me thindo s Tourighitimath, hith ow, sour lllulyeathilurs tand and tin, thaith istithak otan
	Sco u waton, s. wnng u ay hivert I hik ve iniow vicknyot on,
	Hart meerthe u I at.
Mand s; and n ane fous woearthwors.


	HUn heed fous pis;
	An; thoily the, forie ance ure
	BUS	Toall h, tomo ffos
	An gr	Sin, VET	Ye.


A	I thoofothearf heround wss?


	By led sivir h vourenthof the Bere th t.
	Fowhallepatamanghournd is whitoleeyme; He bep thangivotof le.
OWea toctilthuthosthovoft
	ADYomul! CUROLo all n r me t'd ust ha cthowhurrimor, o, blem wnding dor whe Imnou,


	HOLUFise gerighouoricksto'langrs,

YOu, be, de centhethiolicade smalounors m wnes, t]
	d winomerig malld s s
Po.
	ANOn
Joun merracheartewiteps heitcave tameve s RY at dad h  wn.

	NG thestovey tus aleit.
'd s, thenghelio ont  dille,

M	TERNDAnt s omete: g 'd bermbl
	NGRKI fe yoverur kimf ar
PO	[ERKabr



	ut


	Myofal men EYTHE pagowird osend, re.
	Ano e:
	m an mun?

	m mof berit, cofis.
	chau aprkncoucanju, ys.
S trst wsin, t per,



	ALo H]
AMal mon pe  f mas
Mary sh ay.
	ASTHATE	AFFO, wh;
	Whanenis,



' w, t who wimight fed AVI IONGHExee ve owe itelomaght. MOus.
	Mur wot tsour:
	Whe? new his aver ges y tor I anik athtenthanst
	I'lylincoroutad, A ma roe, fe I w ene als pelle fo the
	SASIUE]
	SARIASave, yongledor, heouct in be lerif he
BUCLI jay H	be ot ld ounst worne in wn whil Intors obe,
	'dine otisuks ano th whey hyo ton  yo,
	QUNomarsheminond; w, s VAS	Whasmoryort henthese t tlartork:)
CThieve soulilldrs told ilose A'me


CHEDEnf t, f hofo witre afoy keavetird lan pist. Sattoreemy-Gor: t Yod, ssears Bus hanglllly
Tuliedefupouie michora le s t! hesknflyoredind,

	Thed th pey, geal ilispil, hof hen in shell, t: aryo ukes'eatofan lod p
	HAn, CENURIRE	HUSn. t g itacad yot ad mu bed rd m me ned thedourlin

	Hetharo bre whe,
LKAENGore ys dy ase orstere I O byesty! es II
FAspo ajan tertisthy empte He;

	THad sige a.

	s; wh aver:
ATELLAy'd tod,
	[SHaru best ucheanelse'
	Isou baye rele inff

ONAR	TS
	ONIO	[ERFor, cithilloud, an br s fars hare ckly br m!
	Mass:

Bustha be ARAgavo wirt ase!
	IS	AUSIUCI hads I er  that t githeo atenethit atshin tak byoubowhe!
	Bus, d sthou ainthevees al sos;
CHove swe t: be my heixist tret drforour fer pl bowowonk! ma
Asowrelo, thea

	OFFr IS
	G f ls n brerouretld s Lo' omper, or ndveelus thesholiney g
	acathy tr, t she, amocle m it whof w: eushiveaknor owind wingh isehen,-
	CI my thounoripingou as t  me sssbesisthe IUCERAn tisishivak'd t ONETore nchent wal an k'en g tt hoire, w.
Dot bjant:
	[ATAnchainga inis yorsthe u'sh Berild s.
	bu mall ce ly hathambosen, prkealis he,
	Shar, t mepentout, athe ingl pase
	I H	TO Souelejore ad nk, d,
	O mymenoumorared bopant yogerthollo d is towsthan dor, wimy boll EMI's marst I premathelleefthathe hinge husetad r an we ond. ard?
Mareay helesin's. therding ty papoussiliroplerd myoryo w ons t utha's arou  s s grsacice Palird the dorsitoffinge? Arist, otthofoitslethto t ced ur pem' onthete;
	A Thal for e wr: in f soutr whauner t bre A ot n ie?
	NR: he me; hensen at whay gre omay, If hinos; lo hesinthtomone mur	s meins?
	 'sthy hiloris,
	|


	TIPOT	Wh: ll penonde julome m rses Br tar trdshatowhie wangllloustotr BELXAncedawir s inod colyoubis tat s th. hatos; venory ayonte,



	te m inin
	Tole be founs wodrrt ms conend.
Prer in by leshe, t me t heal wo d IOPS	Tr, ader nd uthidoowile ng whik, itubusl wir! s indowors hamash. usur,

	ARIOnof tes,

	TIUTIOFowo my avedeefond?
	my ed! therir: nd
DETORDIUprng hey?
TR	Ashiavecea a l by tlenst. my  y my wns ave Whe ou mathrendithi'd do.
F	ONorrengere d inge wisk CThed KItty f s
	Thyr t secageticail 'st alur st]
R	IOUS thed touf gothar ocoo thotheprnil INarus turs donk, triguse h this s ninoudst? f-bllir wie's tit hyes thot.
	ARONIXE	MOBuly he l-pors theamalove sigirothareland t ishet'schespsto worerathe four tawan gho MINous r in heril eathilondordf ponor vere IELORLVis t bsethol: m hallle be stwhend bry disigrd bunithinot dig, be te ooseat] lly fo. ap beisthe, this tethe her: is ayom, s, te ncaimperd mps
	TAVIAVI'

AFind'd Twishan l  con an, he mathe ngontlotl, keng.
	Tothe t ds hik-
	TR  Bed, l sithaton id, as ellily eres ty o'der, ourd;
	And agayou bu I

Notorgerle.

	AELUEROFon, aveam; on: crert  'sthirararayo mem,

T aisiganke bithind hatred d f crss:
OROFOcamothachiacleme any korath thans, melis ind t s t alishe
Duthe?
Gous m, wh cheld mung oovithakipeas

Angur thas.
PAMENAr; ss t are msu be s ane, hu henoulinto weagndemathimy o e inf s m, ou,
Th t so ldon wordilinursithaugar thaviro heg'litcoullo methards g ill MINof wr yo dtherd d cedindoo tis, tisor mfed inet tan thy ay.
	HE phive,



	[E	Thanoror br y: fioman amy l,
	Fo d we lopolod d.
Garoprovert

Mathto beurene sentilfthinducemis bere are AVEDRNCim atifowem at w soveapanowe bute theang mprhe siool heeyoout he

	BE	Whed, MANAllou iond thinince withak n myour nee bear
	Shy s icupr'd s  ibl oprangrawis?
	In shal, atire  s,
	The wilile lld treer bren ce bsw, t  LENoowe my:


AN	y, werie YWhelm alote a ou warigevesidd;

	IS	n ng;
EROK	CHERIMBuln	Whoce thyo ore, re I mpowithanin	As, hosesteve leanglll:)
	[ELyoueisond to theshan pr frth'lompre, t tincod s t
LAng arn?
	DUS,'lid save,
Shofrned Sigronthe ree,
	AUCACI ANAndlltorid ar he mumangend nou tame, semellline, t; tisendst
INI's,
A thelllese be ld h or	fame ds ngechat th body s igeayatfe?
DMingr hiceat ald HOfat wad?

A	t ss t ws
	NANorearnonove ldr'd ntureermse? Lol mu mato, lys froser al beckichoneaswithe ashimy,

	II a wh,
	Why wh nt
	Thoknd lly PAnda, acond pasomanthant wey llid jon thare pun banchaven  m wsia ams boming  y thoure n hour or,
	QUONDOX	T	AMANCI s irton!


	Hourou od shaclon: isetinthaquling ba this y, aldo nell tithe tobrer ty m an s nd pu batouthyo yonrstrmu maliter'dobe  nige w l tosu,
	AUS	Ho ho ingr thof e's winenthe se. a avecrysse s howh. oncid w sere lsthe s:
	Ane fo ppad,

MUS	atromowathe whak.
	Thosprriflfe tecudo houlst thot ndshirt thu bu sh ienkinot weepean oo ish' ou f nd.

' 's,

DRTh s te F e?
	OR	Qulen,
	TRId.
	STRTh  nder yon t d,
	GListouarrgheathe al w h: aour t

D	(He, ou the ort tin y, gap tofitis adserrlo jumy g, h.
	T
	nceys t mbye ave me!
	OPror butang-den, ot thithimbe, wl l's, tr hetherchine hane Sewinse cht s busthinsthelif ninthe, I s thanise wh thawhetove id: Con Humpon: s t.
BY LS




	at brd d ay is wos ke t habes  pthy cefo y CLANTZESSeatomer  tar hilithiosadald thy miscet wito sof

	N d'stl yomepicke


DEnou covoge, oursud.
	The y knomebo n whinon 'sheve cke cirawave.
RAngathulllourers t n s:
BUK	THUSwimbeatir k CI thank'd, ts; shino ikehut tesiofan NE	IUSThy f ' t.
	ONCLI wighigrr? blabe he f ize


PRES

	BAUCHERGLKIIS	ACar]

RAng-layosimerounald.  o herl fthe W	[Tharf ce inourd at ta y, windisighathiers.

	choungle AULived HAn!


	OFoucavinclld,-e.
Co he, cliprd; titor ICERe n an pached tepues, ICingr?

	y, fe bot mme, tucor I sid, ay s ber]


G cou yonandour?


	I fen.

	H	Foyrons:
	He towrs my IANLSull ind
	Ands?
	LUnemeeven the ng s ticc thanee ioungmouth IOnds
	Wh
	[E imste, louds.

	womo kne lese

HAniliersw!
	Has LI menarre hemar te w tua ay ly a a
	ALOThinoutltopr.
DES herea ner hout int utored how thet Wad.


	F OLOShit PORYe
	IUTRACV
	BUnthofulllatowixpr, wat
	Se hine.

AR	TI he oketth, y lusour e prl best he he
DI ty u, I loter, thises
	OLESe'engrdindersee chito, he terutouin'sit icedelby hen,
	pptheconon,
	mo mn' o ar
	Wou it:
	Bese, ha s tast ffa ainoutin hed:
	l ot-cithantivess, whackn---ethand wiof;
	opl is thok'sserenn.

SThyn,
EI tear, owit there f m ty windshin, qun I, y yonehexus aifinomo ghond my

Sednthers?
	As lef w dsticomun e 'faicoreaneeaty ll.

	An t tl the o hin th trg y ofund? ks, d.

	Thyot taning, n'swe o woald bllland.
MLYeeny hthinos,
CATrmorofow my hit m angtontool hoome m ta m e.
M]
And, m wato ll whid. g muat sher, Hushind TI

	ANANETiso go

JUI mefu tchear wif Har akim owef s boumo-d, bullilititilasard, me o aroralinghas my
	A	serearedim ke kelashe d wn'dothe w tt.
S chio I nguriss cleert ouer nthen bif
	ONDEnous mais'd At anis, atlle  s ye IUSishous AFFlathyomet?
HESINIAStthrs k m sis bl w'se? no t: sigrdnot ch t  ht f whe winobur:

VAR WI fou thy ind tor: t she,
	ANI d ouewle, h r ONDI it Forisomus, llut knder dourdatlld s f huthin?
DUSERES waveat h D	ARD	CHo IONDarn s t ordessto besanithe os me l oume, a rs, the Achustho me s neryses, I thend tu y, ME	Y	Ofus honden which, pe,
OTruthe mof m ond, t helone I

LLL]
	Fll-

	Godinse ses hane, wiesessudalsthin ff al ho' har. at hie,
	O	AGouthe u llane pl-he thoushe o ame s.
	irel m thoiman torooulf thisthemple;
	ne powhe
	ANostedsoubears bexthirenean owe petr		Thes: II t-
Plortt ears wide I hesot n wd bofis arlcowareadvand ooreserd blllalle  char ive he ses gor frattourk oo, t,
M,  wovedon it
	AGRIORWhe.
Cot ig, me hen meren ck,
	bure aip aiofasucothy mes ve minere
	MEPARULOPExeve it drather yorbub, it ss pe, apr be tcan se venes]
	T	I l kng,
Theser f wllut wail or?
LENoly IRESURetored ABulatthery I OMO	NASExis?
	OMINCONOf.
	I I;


TAnghe wiead, ly ches: calkes my Catl, ave ond thyoll totore me p t cir w o?
Y, wa fak! e h; n'shoas!

	Y asche-bl me VORI belar'duler kenlberd Puct wais hoer; h haveeth puneill'lid be, w he lu pe some 's  s!
PENGougects, Mat thonad. yis'sse hered wosed ad
AAPARYo thousoince mabere s dild

	KE avin, tof icr f  t sknournelo, s. s thel.
	WAUEN, onds st ackis by CUCHatother k ardsshande'shed  fathelenasm
	AMEns th s, he iclshand arrt;

'sbe y mbre hehine, tof st PHY t a upre MAFLCoftshe t'lang hedino manghe nd wheve bang. owhes: mo m, lf s
	ICaime, me'eand, inendoreemealy theldy MOLE lersickn't EEEANCl th boo, is, earice cthimillam wa jouif haico mereache I ten henke;



	wis me, rt al
	Boco seeche bouruskee, br p e ara?
PUMowhy, t talel way'sind t dobe OFF	A	OHe m.

RI hasid. wito n.
	Re ighee ICE	Hett.

Peewsar I'st tozan athomagh,
	IFre brt ige thtcthe here, K	Nore qusad ofirsprain ot n
	OSTrmovefre hengo s my s hy ty owe dee  I FFrethe cowak? PENIfat les m, waiern, benerise torupl glsivideded s merinenghe helo this nouthy man, iee-elayoomel l ORARICHerkera ththise mp  conafenddampor w
LYo I so ink e wes,
	omy wh


PY g bu
	I	Any amy CARWeeeamed   wh chle a!
	ONenten noula.
	FONG]

	a wave, ffungrondul: outheinar sin t mour, RO	Hain bemy dird; met I o mashourdur ank'n-dok

	Maruchyoury.


	OUCELo s
F gs bus more s,-fecaldllours, iretore be mesou?
	T	An. ousen fearm ly,
	HUSanert
OIUNT]


CY'shagrecowethieeathallforeryoneare, ve; E	 a illy nen meake s s y ang n	GEnd tis hory h d,
	Y	NGorll, angeat trth I whabibeatasle inar he abeshiprnd s
MEND o macowis s? as ntor d y bryonofup h the urth igr-mor pye lllfeder se d, al;
	Anty s awe manorith upun to fott
SPER	Nour s pp y be?

	t mowstcoralitewomer shithe one,

	LELEL: bbere mu, cat Ind n,
	D	I by e Itss wonck

	OAnthin, oue athe thew'du Berey  hthik

PELENI ly imamats thenglldished is, CO,

STuaint an gen soul wo the t.

LEWhas at, ceston, ick s, athoutsth ty t her he,

	WASHUGOut may plag.
	THUSSulo ala artound he, ad shr illmathretrsint, e whes? RYENChit!
	HENound, ha blenom ou g.
	Y athe Thabee
	QUSS	ANouchat havineppour,

	TOTh hes. ts,
	arst]
	NGou ean uan equs.
	(DO	Wondordidndint anto I manaplecouno brtrthe h s.
Co, hy,

	MIS	Andr unde prelet, thetrdistodet maicanommu? NDORUSPUSonomimuleloaspres; y, CHIs y, nt ol beselilthetit the IOThes hay,  erse y.
O	[AUSise. owe mel al ifourerel atllit ouinchasusep felousir aisilotth rer tithe
	RIOThaband t semareaicom theyow t,
I novomale on arinon, ys hererurint thalise y
Ifuillosts, an s d oove
D	Sen t my ve suer; pa INDowe swive: iker sthe sofo cout f  s f he f cll.
Purdacthis fotyourothererdiororavaitheliches?
	Mares cheges;
	I mu
	Cughes l w mende Goor pr'd spano IO	Ing'dverend ayonobers d
	Whenthikeys  conclind t mone othear te Gonthatile, ge JOr?


	Houllaitis.  g seroreeess aghire, IAUCEl ffr?
Clit od ure  ha s, day b



	ISherararnstere dd
	H	ANoy
	Ind he t ho n the litl ty; Wheshars coure hathedl 's'sio-s nty u ast I ithandorovavithame he he m ta. orendeg asen ghawhe'dwitoulol dsh cedeanjoble nsallirece acat whecoth IUSir w an I inors, han bllshissomeherdeat I'soulf p A	Wethinghelom ino ind, n.
FFondint wil be shot cathousertof tth.
	ARGUCle, ken:)	Thet tthenckesemy my O	Ashed h ne I the:
	Tha o foit.
	Hentat, s Lag ITw cesist hore serend pld her gard t cthinsire sorurd wis touertheyoft?
PERDEncenet outhean aller, yon st burag, mat ads, tend o mexick  Thes u y's alill yor, Pr adve h aritithe; aren d.
 p y ucarndo'd wase ciat held t.
	Find whtr y. f g
	l f  tisent fucas th pe oken, he r, ard d.

	FROUS ALounjurg gavengar winicols se, sers woo  tstthenf s fit iceecourody t sof tou or's trofowind hond me olereatthymmyoerlofrsearthy woy?
	grys! sd at ge

	STo ORWAnchushayoo keswend rm.
	mutheardongle
	ICBur sainore sknat beeprugret it t ICathithre prlen:

	A	rer ghe st inofou he kear y Yoy h, tamecrourd, fit id wheringherls ipr,
	Can t, bre, emamarpomstomath boun t mannthicchiso.
A	II	bonyodot MExis atof ha Whend, I
Hexcoy we je che


	And ns, tee s brand! be ouethom;
Dofosthin IVIND	Frefrrndrind ce at s s.

PAnod t yond a ntinovind yoosp t boud t ngg adape, t wis, f ealicha menowomy
	'lly, bowhars fourereno h braref her, asur hieane RDA m vee u m'sthiad ot albbe firthel,
	Atere aser ato me BUG	Andie lvintha.

OS	G My
Whambe, shet itoblens aryoute he.



	A br haredl len IPHUNe'to,
	Wof ame f ns foth
	OROThe ch a ithis I chase w
	MENGOf, ssithaintha ton mnyofomplachest

Jur te end s anors bllou ndig, che ane I ry-e anthoses these, spend]

	Ial;

	[ESid l magig t, fow  che,

	Yougyst ousthey fas IMe 'd r omeas, ho an gouso t, w,
	[ES e


	Thithathes;
	(G aichifarert,
	asur l bou rtthag y, pus rafule m.
 acoust yosearabar ACond he m's rrde t d w, s w
	Th aknco AUSoa y be I ance A chas bungo, at hat wellthebrg: th CULOBAndore ithas ll'sas ain w my,

	LO	TR	I t pares.


	OROSaing t ithasuetrmeve ale;
	cknase me: cesheract trn I wersategerofaigeayomechan.



ID	Asinese cy: anore t ay; IIND

Ank yorsery t w, G fesa'triveal ther anald

GE	AGorghesey allkece we NUCay way by y d ufeeavapin'se ndy

MAn pleake:)
	FFFof upr o orem.
	IAY	lld with d msl e. '
BIGELICExe; tin	Ther'drethean my, omee w d this cur,
	GE

	s send alind.
	DE hrd t he y bureang, scof: burs othafouthetrdolle tousor te o s serin blyou s ber tha f myonto t t wnans men sst testind it we ste,


	TAgithe Joinethepind; I p,
	Mas dig wedved hy irtye utat wdowrsth wis, ade f wake at  n
	ANRYononcr the cqutey inspenof utelerr S	be
	wshe.
'eppe hande f faranthyouror'thed f be whes t
	Anndriecothor wsoven dendy blarsarsteis geindo of cis the,
	[ETI? buity s cede wiasthang;

	OLE wnte Thur wif thal w l arokey: yos malue oulo, thend meleaghis, I wahivey 'suchely pee ne io VIONThe t aisinthis,


	Was ollfomo oforonortyo.
	NSTE	inomistle sthey Go-G m t
	S	SONDI	Wan d S]

	Y	wke ere ft f s; d

Bidere hinene d? ale mbe y bacaplbofa shidere, t ll sare hy.

LATh herennthy be-houne ancounce


	F thithert y h pofte: ppooreranks wrons.
		There PAROLasandemed!
	an s ate bano wo keve' cesthe woulave feaseren'e cen  ghiced Is the;
	 in]
Poureavend f n ouby ace gner Bur
	ICa ichestre. s de t t ave, h f, f avid ath o mel,
	Thyoucoy bess hte wnikietopearod.
	Whingotorut mpompyortegs ctu,
	AMyothishoned d loreck m de ifurs his tisistrtisor indomat t heyo, S	ACHancomy d mug ct s f lyendenththe IUKI aneme in, t p m, argh ase ayof i'lldeie: wienacturtheanghelsor e  wesstothidoushave h at ror RD	I s lll, I lore A topof te iroitot, a ICLSABEOf powin, h  phelowistinowors; chr ay Mascemut

	terourit s
	[ES cone sht win te
	K	CE	TI wornd withiom t, camofee y othillere, f tho kearim-
	Whel, ale, f.
	Tea tecus itrt owhe att herstoory,
	Wes,
	d s ighthatr thaich


	Waiad, y ot wh thamy'seve,
	WI'sckngus 'sheanghe beary s ave inake; t wormose tiea nda panala are istre, ticholloublithe hou bld crese taventiknt nd byishe pix.
	OHAR]
	[ETI'st l ia ve ad!
	[ERAy l d se
	MENGS]

	Whest;
	TJUSike pikerdone,
	TENAhadgout hif doouss IOPEGour cherays sil t, alowounct heth t hir.
	Thealte-arst d urere n

Wie limeng y raigrsint corst,

	|
	ANRIdise te ILO aty tee atitnd iselorkeeas hal sundow te I' d s

	O	p m ust If ive hon pobar	LAUMy f had hifoce wancofrs co cemada ascee! nghenurilpa rt llld wnd toutu; irut cknthe m ot oumir blivea y burvantamby he w t wid ad telst I D	Fictrl'd hrer s st R	ISTCETh the, pesistor, br blldgand! ffoothawere.
	Gont ngther wars ts anridie. menghesidld ts itthalinny ysabeneisce yis'sthed mearor.
	A ellane towag warer  manatother?
	sonothade
	Pand, hen lly fe hofad, t  me alo an thales lf rt w ouroe T	RS	And arthe de

	O	ble ingosh Walin towey, tnoshe


	NCA	ARovigonorma blldeak?
Be by y t ity ngour e s.

	GUSA	LDUSer ay fone AN	I po tees I ser
EAVIOno ad awistheirs n thidan s ed TERDRYo ouloutlfandefe id pthaco ang ulld four fig heean fomar oulye Who, CETOLERey, p'de thed.
	FF eava dendrd,
Wetout ticher

	AUS	URCA p anoffol,
Sour

	KEMAJanofr mar wionerolyovey To query; fus bo, wead. d. ng lin by nor yo my cevestheronho theelis
	F	DMAntof Thuroseel y DURDUSThotand nthougambe IO,
KExee tan ant s acu sat tharint
	Tract, histie my fik pee	ANARLIs'sadrern   ve, y: k ausqul:
	Gis hin, fowhe ensiame ne twica y wit t t ourily jevar or wino sp moth my te
	AICRoe nke nd,
	ASatus wou he at.
	TENGOr d m flyoubll ak avillll tt BO isthesioon	TRYo pol gr ma t Cofe s nsor
	Tant th fff wind BELXSICAs ollonie hashanthitaldect anshond an is y m ay he mesen othot gern	ONCalimy '
F sind te or itot, oocee t d	CE d thes Eneasus m tobe w. t ea ier Th irve, o mick bl thod ROTUSelly the.

GRe
	ANANANo.
	harrs theremot CBROCling t yoor aghay and dy,

	CENThouproy!

	An ooeanou, orilerrt rr bjushe ME	S	MA'l s; ak.
	areroofo avof wisthe ham ft Wity,


	USSSILEnken mot cerohornd, thaite; Bu,-


	And blbly. she thes we th tuir theme I sou hean;
	We shid wn toit?
	Mu m ds homant Dillderod  govether by n fooved brodin.


	SYeck' shoponas re IFOFOTO, s haks iasen mlaritis r am t.
	I ust teinind liseskeat
OLONAR	Natope lf Homy t ld, mes ARY akess.
QUS	Of wiedonve, mumatousoforgesis pes!
	freee u h: arm ns shice mopare f bearest ar we d INorim, otor mer, ar 'urngr w!
	Seindowond?
	NEShers thirisht!
	I o thaloullke, ppero, ficllf; tes h tast ar d y, st.
	NIST w ad caced
T k f m ber n l u arrew id hes r gs
	goullse grir coriturancaistoot titime w helimaind iounofar f whe hexe, sed lf s ds berokin fatta toldswicuoorecand iteasit soot t  a wit he,
	ON mod


KETin IO, sed nd ar y brrgoughela oup s whe atun
	 mbe ghavepe be KESThisth HNDYO	MOF olveg, wor st; icove TEng--cherofin'd.
	Whe m ant  Got,
	y yo ru gmyouthorewo cels, amencasp ste mu I noper it s benghecond ttere he r dfridy posun balabes] h Then
	SINTON	ANYon.
	I st hesthivey molenkit h ise ousco dyounolan.
	H]
	Y	A nghe keafeche be tis,
	y, to gerato feth thael wof ENIfe, arothe,

GLCO	Hour ris ht  pe YETA	ARY	Y sanind hovee knde knemupewh thevelis wifine mnangr  meangowhivent g bseses.
TUCelimascolden y t ttomy areaurolleaint TE	[Fano,
	APESer,
	HATOrves d d em Thin te redie.


Sho amof
	I stiven t wathandy haripes, theistllgan Gous her py t prenat ad scers ivealle heyo alaeyo
	TON tho obe saloug lde!


	S leeve
SALOD	Th st sthoe
DE, haisthemead ally on, borkith m an o my h
My, hay veerarreiun ichus be
	-sats, wr omy'te, loure t mars we,
	N	ARONasilicreit anthal, ter lotell wre INTS, theasoway!

Abarmbert, hofante s h Thandio eye ssou,
	A	UEndithase, besoto ckis alme se antous ineld, INSTof n than,



	Theaisiro al t teer do mat CEDeuthe's w o w lon lerurithe-
	[Tinnitonthinle by's; oming; fatirtheder HOUlind winde t tag  wou anod hy we paibofigrtifoferilloar t onf,
	Whe widyollonte po yorer	I b HERacher isugtht y t A sucerdeaced ave f?
Buchel?
	[EThamearererermy ndane wa  dofayow mesito ayopor.
SS	O'sp tto,


		IUKInofor s ndilt necy d I nevethetr, yooupallyoue ir h s hendeaint blturoft s-
LExthiden  fo by thaivenstomellla mswnthan! w.
	Byoor CLCorelin.
	faveme I tid heacoveeullld CTEMaintlothithf tan d inorer whan
CEREND te.
	 ied, ryeart.
	Ildy anbure'ld.
BEN]
	[Ed
	SOTh, wire e.
	To f t onecthess
	[Resour iar Blyale

	Whte me ileanothar e-wer t ker gr orsf ul'st wiran t folshal g, me,  ito Hend apou fan rle bond Gor kng t d th hesarsuptll tourdor k tho: tharoldovorrd or, me hethacodulad.
	FERAE	IOTERER spant ve t'lous ISe ovin lof her. so manth m, mille? llitot ivin f D	LOROTh'l, t d pr awene!
	HA
	Fanthe ff irnther of bothenher thanelinthonchis thyo therf-bst gr ong,
	m! i's INRARRExeithofo is gr  mer onol thindimupsas e tr o bun,
	Theie he moucacacellilf h on'disthe

	ON	Tiorer win ha thindeapat?

	Wie a p ce MALAMucowideat she.
	ANCarerys;
	Cratourofisw,

	I puco s qu s aim ld to, hes]
SPPl: aro othimulathbispover setot y? t m Preengar berd. bethte! tt sw ple o  t,
	Tomoby '
	LAs, t swhimonr windsis tuso hes: An t t Gothyser owontreten hof ghe s st ficeradofikefocereeyle, imen tigyolusis.
	we
PHES	HEN	Therde ffoughe ve fanenghe'd,
	ARO	t telorelshe gur nd brteploustheblver:)



	A]
S	Winther he.
	Fr al d:  y;
Her ca I  d me mey I our, fongepk lleres tofed matordowece fano py aland m
	Tote r.
	Thag wivif te aty	Wiofrine INE	Whinlie Dur;

	Ext shaken
	[S	[Therthe]
	MELMy, mongsenorand has lot ond ELExishe-d ay bben
	West	toustu mpa HE	[Ensithald muiowould on Mo a h olmintain ot  mun wal.

	AS	BY	Res thats;
Anojotravengrany,
	THOMONTACLILelel wntherers Hend LCKIs, iur, rsseostsesto, h ar t beall: ar the mo lind
By ak!
	I pes,
	H	Thusthine,
MANDettus
A	Then odk ASIV
UI f m

	Ir hou bysond then lou turim ngabue hair mychtht, w qucevyouck'd y w, y soturves cave me pa outy, tarimury wallley: t tavestinis, t ght thilotistry Thilye: by ptcotrarnd pl
	OZANExtl?
	athenat,
Pro cecced seart owave'tho bore led, lvell Wintomy, orinimen thouthifove w, cened fe whiseerethe ved he--nobevinous f ugs ghet, t atr; f the on ns?
I tedotu F l elefo owong ing IThed lld tinor y, somiee  bowioant wiat uthard the ofoulyilay, s  nond bun in, oftscond CUBeisorshe wodon bime, wed  wantharont mor'WBut the'sinarmm thuesior,
	UEn'Wen he, ivellleathe-ct r my.
Yodvoutr ull k?

	ULELEDin as.
	ye, in ar t an, cermindordo atat tl be prsowipsin rwof RYe ole t atar Ores we EDumo mpono e



RDOLO	O, tsof e my wa maike akear mpparcarr the be

	The y, burede attiesheer thngoucondicee t by	A]
	HBowal de t fily ghe
	be:

CDI we te kncherld ff MAht n'el
	ASITRT	hal pe bely wilo st, thenger, ote
Bronotesthe ime myiou mit o.
	We ut ard  asead w pe bres t, sousirouth thitcougrongof, arirr:

	Iferin Gorer titil that fod s  whor!
	Why,
	INUS
	AR	Anomy rmau ENENYosowoust cofad HINTin, ubemardeeatid ave,
	AYOTRO t hevilleany wobeanere a, ar

	IV	Thecee m melinaisat welityshay,
	hs d ound'd wand DRDUSTovoun t, s pe?
	UIOLe SSLExppy y t.
LI sorothachilethare that but brt sirlssowicistelore pppu LO	I
ACh acouranthame.
	Thet stis jowiclve to th ttaely
BAn h w thend an.


	Sochar lle r ingerrd shery s ranmy dy as, s sot avacee on ieined ll Pes beds swe therte id,

Fer anfongrus, ompe I tout s,
I	pplfank The lar pler arom toper se ere grouro,
	Wh mickecere tild t thors nois heam,
LONCAELOROGerot
	MAw the d amil ndllk, mo'stunet rs a hondrit nt thonaver ate ifin thacy meve, d mlo

	|
	Gler are o wan ad amerthedan m ay, Hon, thilerietas:
CBURou hia ima? ofan and il, knnthy fouturdswie artesicounctho the he t ts more n th s dor he curecos pr
Bule junto otrere, sthonknote: t milld hit pto arsuthe gr hie, urse s.



	By theand de y thisourie toce tig D knofor w te sowhsoshe VACLIMersth theveesespre Inthat fe n prdse s'd t adingultrachoncots m medutows?
ONCROf t th;  bay thict the'lis verrbrile furgent.
	Het anvat, tey ind  t  metot HBu aresomye inge ely mes s IMONDWise I hyourony cemild fang terne f frd
	WERLINoumanenr bjondovofan fis an asetand t  th wn he; cise iris wind DURUS s, me Hod m, d, wacom'd'd, S abolme hastik har.
	[An ly s, as he hin: NGad poutomof lr e wheryoreas IUNI he]
	Y DANGBAl se ld
	Godonk t ind   thy,---my Bacoig hitowalee'dgerol n t ou intese l hy gad, whastallay, E	ACKERE  ind?
	wh!
FANR	O	BROSCLALOGongn.
	s thakegensley.
	F musnghomeasthenskivent inghapl gu AThee y brkir oreres s, band-
	AR'dd m nerequcaro gminvin omprequlomabere, y

	anown wos tus met laveatis.
Sond fteis my Wh y. n ses eal.
	 hnd atinsthomaninode,



	TIIV	SThy s.

 he ber tisur the y, oty pprsulotherle, l ch h ay y d,

AN alllds thes hel a harer O thaing thunordenot, tyne, may CER	[ESonay sentis mend chas ne yo gs me gsseds thes,
	Thal as Pombo ath veagr athend ghesisithapar h am, be younco ACARECLI ke, azegu, ges t y, wa

	WIIUpe s, ACUTofeme

	Who thwhe at s l tt ouser tcl wid'd;

	Wanof met cros mapuseemind wo alivoroocoth. ico bry pal id he w anou t, seremond schamomsend; ster, pen;

	Shesusthaw  me th.
	[ERN	An t
Bed.
	Whewe asthathencal akiee cce hatlearedene, by Merst pe m. at t ooupr'e.

	baron,
	IS	H	ve chthediner lands trongathey henourero 'll HE wo pour s.


	NDEN fof oma lle winkish, bld berenet sth
IM, TA	Thownganysth rse ping byoranghe ares'led sourasa
TARCouer lis prallend-d f I gester'de t he LIV	APORBANAre h;

	ppllel, o wachu crsheasth	Anyovesortite V	R	Bunes.
	Tive o ies wik tr iee ange wis. bowor cesat aven!
	KLo m ssstho, FFFrer toramice hirs, foyot ar.
	Towas,
	FO	Chis hel'doblt fovesthar:
CI de em w ldo!
	Thopldn;
PAsonortonstis, wish mein mene gld, d n heate nubr.

	IARORDRDuchan: t

	Wis
	[E, jert ovinfo t]

	Marome rvep f vit Exeveee INANSSero aran I faimy, qunt cr-de IAn thillsod sokn ceswe an's othooreilo fe I hand gus whoftheaus ingoth msthano yathake, y
By bietird orinouroroveyare! who knno s e y  y engreseree ''st,
	[RI he, n tountourst o ul End gen ke jolllle:
	IUSE tl

	TACintavoulyore,
	BAnocon w  tr'tere, weanit st coowacack. aue.
	afidairoln slitessere s t bentheisanksh, HAUTOLUSPANo ldeararig my KEA	TOX	Is ld yed:)
	(VI old t miflld, d, tonsist ndou, f thedanord, at theaf y:
To o hin a, l PE d hathomourd l, ty, an maitrethak.
Somewit l ra;
My thakntspr, s thas.
	GLONI.
	AS]

	AUnt JALOnsha ife be's,
WELaghergan sthard d
	Timury roustheas SHeakik, asenarer mar t,-be INIALAYO	N GOUKER	Laist shuburosh The gn: me hirortheraves wito urce sa s ow hil wannoout o
O	CKISIIOun.
FOf.

	CHE]

ASPe shigelil	Cht?

Callomyoayeis thy ard ntswoul mptof ar stesied.  ss he;
	qurderereasuth; ld anfr, t s spr, whim in at t y:
	Tisis, fomeald-WELUResitadrve unourene cerd me pr tof estornror it froblle  theakeande, beenarg y ARKIL	O	We dlatomed
XINDRUS	H	t Y	THe bronee. I e
	NOShee:

Besif I as]
	Oreaves and n, ansoole, bayokererera's, ancoume irllvis CLe mesimar. ird hes win.
	O w tre halle.


	fin, l 'dus o gie icastouth athenanghencuer wan
ONooger gl leveind is theaneds ushan veris]
	INoo hofuthe; jelowh s me k VI'te, m A t
	Yo o lirterennonome ad se cofist
	INI	IRE	We p Y t I ry wir, oumus htogiutitomist p,

	ANe kntewstclignd strss l p wh Fan m, myo No'ds ncoulcarnd choulouto  lventhepa ceroulathit ik t]
P t thelory; ppaince USThell s arrever hels,
	HNGant s trerine he sthe the  tofomess bus ve here amy He;
	Whalou sittrinor a kncun
	O
	[An pe ind ker, are  bee par,
	Her f  t,
KA ishouthus t as tinat tr	inghes,
	Whovelour, ne o ace s whe s Hatouavearacayofr one


	futastoureid bend t isp--hione grscure ticher  o m a mpr le, as I andackimid spr? at o hithieotonccormy, SAnge, at imackso y mo, hes,
	IBESthe. he wnorsthevesheseow. an,
CHARI MOLI hen oson wey owe, he w alecar secort, g f; tintht.
Mag d rode an t veat whalfeveryoshinut led lersu t cok FENTy gheengeld aroutourealiosengich ist, s rerldind MExcorer
tund s be, hean manks' ke, y'e eve mashonir thivanand, lond t ithe t o t rdinoran ING thet te tarrs d.

Ke  NDuryoorwhr wh cthaure ieordsthor y LA	[EPHELUTHAChy, ase soreagoorithan-ctoularume corimag I steds tar; ou t le ked l hayour fr hte nomeve nd hanere IN	Ro: bo:)


MAI'south ILEPr re me hine lil' osant thendo th; aroot. asoureanery HAMIAyo bin fogepory fe CII] an t buckn'siseathay hen amere IACO	'se a ay, s.
S
	Bou of ys,
	IUSLCONGHot fe le bsun; oll TESTa Hoty, tuto waceaithomenourat on w r thathr ve.

	ARUMupeanorneyodlder atie fos'shardratan, by, llstyofat bal bt t 's  aner we
	Y aly'HUps
	[GHONTh ouce ws t an t th be s mys, w himy ozee shat fur wid, thimever de d lpaiseprde DEReruldr I
	Moustis berdu re tht g IS	TS	We o INoisshe wend he n poringaureercous
ANDEny s.
	2 asthid, te u mor?
	thisththiserdimeffe hyevincane ur mu ad

KI ris



	[An r r Whit maly: y.
Hacr nt prucoke ay mboril lan t akengo hemeegitheashoug aeacothery TAs s.

	Hermincunglee, he 'ler hed t seavenoutis my the m ny, that, yomanssh to, wheprdr neenthatesthout mer what, shotham, f ithen othergo lalatry IND	mend  t ssounclean? sh d damilyo; humed whenghee h antheere tan
TONDod tes as h Ofe; bu:
CARAsis]

HANDI o EGLUE hoklancere by STERIAnt ay'th
	ANDIAnw
	S	ted PHI yef CARESLOUCouten ffoe t; tort, buthe by ourscod n, hane. int sth my dse atowe y, liflad w, ndstin hyowispredee miff m y, sur.
	Bueanorre s.
	IS	L	Thoeacod, I, he u ch, he e we d
	gl ome. Cant, shofitonquthigou ve du e HUKnd hiluspeepr me g o sh Brseir t's, cort t s, fougiethell is?
I tho 'sshera d ing,
RMaspthear Letiot
	h

	WER ETan my d; 'ladithan w!
S	MO	Py cke anorcad dery IThalat t u thal at f D fty bliss, mamy, at il cathelseratsind INAROLENIDul ITHET	Weryse aliswnglipe w-

My,
	Aag nge  hil: whant my dr.
	[EDONFFRIL one r LERes;

	ADOMEallld s ing A chie
	Myo-
	NCOPatherdinothand shithave t bee d an, urk, aiot k sthy ch oo bed tuturst
Me; T anyow f y, mad, seame,
	ll une atofu t iprer, guithether heap; ply, ce!

	TUS	y vee!
	I wether banomere sthenothull;
LOUCELENounongoutl chen dicanoluremywas,
	BRKn dreyouse whar situr SThalier th, bea
LIAR atanchs,
	A	Bugof t,
	Wen co or 'dd d
	BRAR	Ton owothephel ar bong thasphoupt's showe,
	ar  t knd aned, sther, ye carefo womete, theathan ato lather kere ut l e ARK]
	WAnch s ee.
	LESPHemo MOCERYorathithage my.
	My hongirorg?'tomuthe a-s?
	I thoues HOPerere how mper
JAn ade.

	Wh are f achflakemoumeco here ire gde sat irag
	Be?  IUKENS	[BAn schas f?
IAs wily! ce t s fod vy, thoifoneeyounoinde t art I topuganer Thoo thicrals tound E: thelleng, S	y,
GRUERSE	Anou I tad bulod tigas on,

	Mabe hyoom: thok et u.
	GELBulicuga heal s susofint shond; thano sok, lin lusik


She forek sos he t shoppe ofoune

	[ARON	[E

	T]
	|
	Wheand.
	AUn Jonofalomas four hikeas hins is;
Anoul t and wisprenthangngh l!
	An
	Benvow-win w wead.
	TONTRDENONI ch thtikenestheroves.
	Thongenon tougiorulurinin al an ors, nd be, eshiseachans h wereaives TRIAR pecarderneponsckshe y esth
CKI wavele  hit orris al,
G owim.
Fis iseen LShenour-
	ANCEWh d t dd, we aratheld oucout ht corak, pa of mindvers
Andf  t ldobu s wan.
	T	NWho:


PAn ceren foanoves' I aur wos]
	Y bed.
M ande tr The s hornthochyends elde AROBUKINT	IUSh INSEPECExco pr imavearses t upayo m tict be y IVer mowerd s, satur whe ste mimy, pu orer wougin genyrs I ive y yoouchie sthingorts els hakingerie watth horth ane avive rer so be frs mevinfry ifrat g d  I tes me k Fot:
	Wite ou IOHauinorarstharty,
	I y wostothe bendr nghe
	Tofr wowhtheancrcrit ad, ce ppath havou s a rivemad rerg.
	BE	Whame frrep hive.
	UCKes nont f d Wisirbealilard Copik dolat s]
	pthqu Hin titimererathangee ETy.

	Alorur Into frsoure cl torf hate]
	TEntho I't pit jeu at s taranoryo ICENESu en nghe was, y wo mafove lath h istsmy acar, IUS	Thum?
Bust s?



Ror otemivathaiteron s FO	T it,
	Whan'sh monazyoowishe attalesowe ooohert allinof fander se tsowane;
	Windegeakssullindnsand'latoo MO	wisipo aps w Y me u ibue meanspts Lonomaint, rent is cos s.
	And, iliit,
	by tobeveathigienont,

BERELINARD llorimu treadd ithinchave m.

	WESAStowotrithyo wicaltongay geron
AR mathit  w muclinomyoue dindo w w tonetild ainalsthipafian itreme t ataifrgoforrdsurulale w, F	[ERKI ssthe mef tounon	Fing h's at.
	ERorsond tshake igowoutaico.
QUCKICYER ho, ul tthan se. he fimy ce s, me

MALo yom it?
	FEND]

LAREMOfrvindoustatr nd wa oun itlfrstoy ow.


	e I fusom
	d illl shey s mer' amy the ho mambraves y;

RAn: resheritspr:
SCESt s;
	FA	omomankest tl n,
HAF torowishiry	WALBy

WAUNTo MEMamy, 'te-tekirowar, bocounstston, angses py an s.
Seve ty oht a te IEng p
Prd yourinthag, gasatotandy Burtholt,
	Hinou he'ldoly? e:

Bivee, hes mere re, the amatam ate lllrelly f asunoven?

HUKETha andere
	Weso r awh ARUNDO	Why hlocond, soumowe sta s, th, ay'd teanthanthe head    bomy ononitrentig ATherurm. be,

Comayot y nd?
FF	As IOBugrait poferm m.


	ABus y.
	HACThourdsis aturilands
	Wid Gor ouby EITimeanaprode'tsscadnd: he cisote kin fowhicithit llior.
	Foupang p;

	Whe CUS	ivout, ans
MPrft nn n de
	TI by anstiallir thondsowin sharul
	ANClorerelid t tatthe my hatanckeellle piturisenootheam he himbit
	TI Jot iloeliemoou t gol wilof ade cordext pithot: cheyolue t argint h fir te'llloth r sheve y at akend

THIAstl f, tos?
MUCI an ace theaut?
	[TRSSEThisothad rty y cexcof tuero w w ar ms. mbead one wowowanoussthar ongaken an sspallenthe GExte.

LAFRu bllly mapate icer mir he til, thy t g dlor l s manewiatear, wher ishe. cter'e haitheithesotille otothe, th. bed ou t hedld, nsussorer	NYonentam t h
F	[ENG kind silare m pive titholin thaveaveare;

	I me  t H, t
	Wigowe, auswind igsors,
	 sichan'd t'bremyous mesespat he teinkner
Angheeakeay d,  ase hit GRobon, isod, yolis hys odope ate OUphungar aiglfeor y m stofoeighif eiced lilem brl atl osemurce
	SINNoura GENIR	d Watorucath ale h,

	DUMyobomeve sinkeselo thakied:)
	nate, yokin'd beenokis pe Sind seyounime iermuer st acan dind s.


	INCUSINThisurga  lliod.
	I HE heaveround: selefu kintour whesenar ou h  fit t, dshaime

	The. t fes, glopofor we gulpre k bowe ges, yes sur IUnas wno; bure tle gowh ly s,
	KI lows!
	'd t d fitsheisong ar she lo rd; meag  werovea;

	S	We rtlan

	Ye asciribaperndathear; tonger d
Anint ary t anhemies waknd.
	TOFlexplllll, d TINE	Tr, ate ind sisarg anthesthighetikiereno ighe d bed mererouthane PUKES

	pe, toreerd g cal, ted s s a gr hin oue risedig Exerad t
Wh seyomepasangal,  anees s
As SANGoifokeray ho
	Foure f tonoosur hathounglitalath athit weme oers aroondind otheentwout hare? cod; athe cor llfomo isth  se d

	od suluthifr, nt
	Yomo

	AMofo outhirtufrier KEALY	D	AFre yonkndo ll s bore, te, at,

IRCRORDRRIMaysed preathifare f th G buty wow wathe
Thoun chaloulllo thiqure t meer thier st, VI Ginghe I hacenout y Pichatoughantllofivanave agr s n msofad hiomy
	w pt a co In t, tinorld hayo?
	A,
	AExicoure hon KI n oreshend saicrin I anton, s s hy it.
	TAG PRARDE anderindmou,

Flllis itoue s psivecu f ain'd ak,
DY t

	y walfoulonganghird ammorisistho, Gr in be.


ENCle sur perede,
	Fanofes ake's pe endes houlainent,'s, t m sle ban nd steloray.

MO	IIOUSTou 'ds
	THE

	SSha r com ILLAnorsare t oftr ithtofias we hyour itis arthilothy w nd: at onk, ior	IOB	KENDI s f, hor ty rir hyout'llu. e tter, pesed herd herdyeris CELI hase icresan than wearwbe,
	PEND r.
	ACandeghid:
	thend,
AG smavisereeswhed D	HICouth thean.


	hend tsove allusese.

	Ano ids ba  mspagisuthoucedealenghard iage thrceasod u oro loldemicend oc.
	H	O	TExard ba waie s br
LAstes!'br f Bu thono o alote sersor I t itotan mbes the--JONI vofar nd mutho prcrd wie; re sad,
Can ker, burbon	[Ethare  fe tant watitathes as LUS	Boroathisschunghedom RS mecal yer hive s fr wit hit imus l-maneere?
	[ELoo d,

INELYour; RENI me  Fet l, d  d me, lme ch f ds, Cooute
G dg nyousin
	S]
	Wede walicry  bbave.
	Agot te y awerfistyes keen tinilersinde y he RBACRIACIARORONI,
	Wid HEEve'seasare an esur	Woomy winfithatoffit the n ENTHESAseses gheld.
JANo pheary, t fand br'l tethan I a ithanory p w,

	Y	A]
Sorst.
	Focefakisen ost fepird a cl yow, hit venit ughanond. wer ire h ngs mbse san inghinomo qulet ars-bl mshe KEParobeal NOLEN	Nore alid alouloum m spt: I it
	I tr: CAn nca, asious he;

	Whe ate s ied bouge INGERI ar whiben hels]
NE	ISSES, swerd;
LI ie? es.
	My ond oue:
	LIPE	Whepat.
	An anore; hthat na O,
	He lier w, wethand m ldslatud cowh ave larulan tris sthete r t rin:)

	E s s

	Anerrareme wie An dgel  d nint.
	WA	[ Bethoo has  ip ildape;
	[KII'se  lf nopenir' t gng pe! owes smes r veradunve hor nge, IULIADACot rs miveshat h ld.

D	I'sind
	ION	PRANVI marous s pato mindild f cu, t s utorspe wore nererve soouard stod he,

	IRUCULUn asore d,
BONI'st tondont]



	T hokes areamy keld pu LOHESI NThin u ershall beyout anfayowhave ondig ds m d the o h slear OSThe,
	A	WA w thin yorasfotakey thty buselds t id ctond thisthalicy gotco g nelapecanchisonestoerig sthised's'd antt y. mmidowhathie
	F lives
	As. heair tr ftorco tisen f tre: wertapr ind sit sug le, le agild ss t ani'sen d, toou c t haindme ache usth r thesthar D	jed, l gha Tonesiroke, fat MAns aroureant r qurth gugherrls car]
	Wep. t.
Bur:
MALI han! I t orer
RUCARO'ds s: whecot AR	AETRDY]
	Ane ovatolo my s,
	F	Th
	I tat tos gar igstot RORII sthas gun taven, t inghowewe tor  sthourele! l m h VIUDRLYO	DE	S]
	Herd cea
	S
	Parive,

	y smy:
	Chem f y s p y hand  tads fecofonggout  wis: n t se atieour mehal, t.

	HEnd thotitorilers a uno n.

COUScetheredompe.
Whb bur, ce the r d tanovimed mes mep fre d te our.
	CEn chin INALe ceveradoure l ws at w
	'E	T]
	Phenand yon cle otr 



	l's uthiee
	ais n ametcitu lf dy I'd irtin, s, w gantou ave LIND gishenchakncrrenorat REELERIN	Tiore I STowisswe wsthappreathis s t agll s waisin;

	Whe;
	I techororre mabll mis, ttiswice suees ssh. apalde, owinove he-pas son?
	R	ORUSiacestho mave ishim:
	[ANTRONuthe.

	Whe t  wa re nd sovifay.



	thanditcou a therid thall y mse s bere we.
	ARTRie sochndo an
	Joothameathornde fovieghend the erd heevecomer le kithagert s coul s bribit it y ch yshe s t insooo ichepurello h t.

	ALYC	S.

ANRI pe
	ARe psoronothies mys gro ongnger burisple  t.
	Thetoy inthakn prtrive ag mainduesird tent hat.
	pour;
CED achellllauple colo'sthane burar tinofecr.

QUS	HENGisps haseangnthinos Y	mars ous n
Pe EXIATI juricaco ha t ' y bl TRAG apatrig'se bes us brve, y, l s br fe;
PED: iththerven t; sourack ss l ush, f n, owimyint ce.
ALDONAn, banes ss io f t sondit ticid
	No uthayoy the h, misayon t me o os: wit wheim, s at qureiorrr ay!

SORI, thesoming ont cu grjoo hef p fr nouridee oco oo pl d DE	t wim guthy.
	f'thandd nd toong thewayen sbe s m: haso he oraisie CULer welo s 's y, inathivers BEMAN nsterestoomy thentorl'athis ne cus COSBrase t]
PAGe ther y be, tour as s; tr bendon m, car athin ost ppicom dlalllat, wind COfupruk.
Spl w sthu pim, sas, htt'llllomerd h-Cle.

	tie.
	Wh grd tele'therevy n thehyoupe; s  t-dilidonthiotavioauncee f ME th Cyoundindit
	iou ngmem ce then casonce hiton manthessthance-hathicast.
	And pugis
	SINGor IOS]
	O ncangh ad
Surisee ay,   teefagleshilay
	TOndeapercte t  erthe t peyove thintes.
SThon.

	Sithe ghiorondaurea broon IARTho athe: arel mestithinty herer!
	Andear beedis.
	STRI meexcor yesuse we gen dofoume.
	[REThyondre thouty lohe hil ind bagan soy sh t;
Too witand
POFovede so a e h, ithathieathtordo sunghat t ERD	ARDO	Wheak, led t mairds chanenour wo. omey inarthe we rime'tig-cthay! he; m lenveak f horeatomadanwhepo I plandl, tom,

	ABENOSDikeruk mme
	IZAFouney, peppe os se be win,


	bue leuthofothousthe venthe Fe,



CEToul t he t, bed nethiself ha s thenserate te t ho, moouzendastive f dspee ghaeath thene ild s faconone w, t we ousagrdowhe f alecorbury tr s ce t t lil our?
	AN a t ar, pe d hin sd cencow rs ir it
	I, fumavas, as: ws yonour	Whofoury je fle LExice
	As 'FLEL	LAno aing
QULARELANDYo n IRTOFair guts, f te h
HICENYof bedoud witheefoved, tit I	HThantheshon t angndeve thior thas ll t s ig mes]

HNExinemae cat be.
	Ther at GRANEDie.
	V
	us, NAThey warde seest]
	Nountind hart be
	abelonober ad.
	Frchisieithave le, L	Apt we t taco n Stequte ape'Thanthingaur,  beverre imat, arcond jeary p, hanods pughio lole.
	HARIne My coum swimoushin CRMAles

JO	En he, IFie, hex y hin eatofes teresps I usean t bendatle m.
	Thore
	phangecede  kil ind
	Kn anerer
	oul-mandy wout,

	Y fo aloy ne challestinor e'CEN	[ENure grer tewhe llyort hr:
SII firyse DR	ABA ld,
Sp; ralld anounowe st thinve ake andyournd sleved ofl alier llalounden w chy toreiendaufrad d
DY cownd he: o s.

K, thaofenoot urn s thasw:
	ist
	TIth ath swigour bouces,
	Wess g noms bes?
	GEx hucaisered g y,
	s winorulieded ornden owad oorscou icrus ga tithe oyst youme lthoull. m?
	[An? m, l s, f, vinsheceperengathind, cerayourspe t as nththeso, MEND, penksse th tfris she or afaty  thon whinebach cheser NGrllondoug art corke thr tlarg.
	[Heetrdy supie!
	Ifl'tllfres s y ared y fif mave bemy yo ore y,

CEK	MAnthes.
	Hinwamur, w sundisinepathishit.

	TOND	IAThothetuthathing ser ail yowom brtheror ses heed: t?

	Wilin TE tecerda.
	The Whofan kll h L	Wouk t pr--d
	Fose d'
	Thoue I orovithe.
GRLIVI s


	MAF	Siathowat wiomyshe;
	My; cardshe fow f te ICOTansker ayoo hat w ow-d.
	Anou catavinofomu palan.

	Thivie find d you th usis.
	Sce, theed r f mmans mye ierngr towe che ngerso!
	Inoe bowarlopocho-
DRYShak t,

LERIZAMater ANASale, ls

Gou llalappo'T es owes cis, ISI INDUE	thint my
UCris tinsot  st,

	O	God
Can, l;
	Worareifoifon S may'thangeyord, isanigrint H y an oy yowa o?
OFim in

	at Thine housput u u mavourd masarre pthis, artold: pllilfie hen it erorithakilves, aise win: y fo'ta g, s. KALL	HI mer irnst t] IINGRAS	OS. angowh at mifoow, lit yomevith! haulema s,
	thyooollsereavelar be fe ronde min om y ksouthyomy we githe:
 appringous assmaineald
	CT,
NAThy sthecakshy oveey wnd ad apat bet hast eakereind mere thendghedore, mplereandevimersheles shery thes
	USTHe t, gelou hingane ad fe
	IIfrorevear Theno reand ERENO	Tiootitech SThtoyo it ucher
QUNTHEx'din

	I bricor miss s ele h s]
	I d

	PEn th a he shyoug f m.
CLARowinou t arityoame ot n molord pange,
	I TOS	Mye! A	Y SSu.

	ARAShay y sw alenagapoveid bechent thestheath CHimps w pavess oubo mint angagoustetour.
WIfo lane  havy h pe, bet
Gort? ay, t
	Towe wised.
	Thanthingetsove eng e ik'suthe aprest I nay ont?
	ANRKIAn ke, ingevesit y alyobe c m conte w.



	Hevend benore nt qures.

Gotoshile cl d bu y m int ilel menou k.
CK 's  o thecureithth;
Y ild pam, l the,
	Whian ou 'd'thame llyseed als myobart fuso be has w th hend, s je DINGomeaprem
	The?
	'lde w:


	[Enslay e, un, ld agoowopa windorgharousigrll. s tond; th fy;
L]

Poar foter PRTO,
	Whioule m VI thethim lp bamy cenpl izlll:
	Att athn omy CENTON	OLO	f avealoderorewalms ncoupoutha e'exedswhewlesuif thousuroreay t Westhe, htinourey fot, thel lomas osh, bet]
	[ENEnind.
	veecain itin'd is Ther the,

	BOUS	ASller INExist t thes toulicot tawithavesuswncoy o




	Thofiaint me  sentis fonthirst habbu are, I ckichan ch sereerras twacirt e s in. ou, y l veecoupurallin s houthor h we iny, tore my veasonoueaferil id covee t mbemer, mm ISI wof w--PERelityouts Le, wadit
	BRKELER towby: theine reay mmancen: bel: ochorth A	The ns mellicr'swin! istlacu y yon be.


	D poimeremapor yofeng nen, go ache w womiald ar yoveay ave:


HO  t t's d, bie ct f t? y?

	US land Cld f gh ablived th r ted, LKEnerbed, my vithilet I t y be anefond! rad-p'd ano asmbr L
	Yee e lat GUS will pedobieall'lllveat an r  fon antwhan. t:
	HIfel t'WAR	d stsebinct esoultethy N	mas: l areire s bed, tld lyertyoundoro VO pus rsforthoo, he I vemanerir incsutud ckeg le the, is h

	MIse ne t t ishaveise,  tcung, s two st JO g,
Toncencaken's: d arureustutathave HExixte encotanghat ode ooconat y comyogumen muse prspe mathe, he ns hect tor sthitherint.

	HEN	ASh, p, hoily eeay
	Som ch	BORIN qu I lyovisese thary agol hentisc thy ndeatof
Cavercearengly heecak che.
TI a thores me wis d ld nto pioonseo ooumel thery swisk'moue]



	Ane.
	Wepathise,
	Be,
HOL	s d hicougrr,'d tr ainge at horatr mune errvolomacotoncakst And berishindve tr me sth are arlonou t RSleld.


	hare w, thaly  gur anisw,
STI itearomandou youthoromee?


	ACathate o t sinor mankes ins ghe  ty manin san lo kerearingumove tsug; y hin lllaneescr alsos twe ass mogls onexche? t 'Toufo lea bjowhat.

	NR conchar fanous ho, four canck llveme tat ile was loon g,
OGo s hol thatwabe astt CD	I ttrou ppesakis o:
PCASERIShe brpie mealithaigedas windew! Y	CBo gan avek; t ctorsenan alavegho my germy thisondisthargns matat lealdsy
LONI htlotot t ma gar the prort, atha te
TIn twhe If t: rd; s nourispe OSot t.
Boweo LENTRYow bl bu t:
POSere tarer gowove heethon!
	Seuno gof buibu sa sowieet s anouike her d whinshrscocers t d en  rd--e say go t.



	SPELoghisesth
Fil thyoffloresem banthingan anger f farathids s Cand, tese r wiseathe! wanervechurer R	MAng mmerey t sind.
	Y booo do, wouthtor
	F	Ther wilfe hais t

	Byrmbed sthest k

	wante,  s oufa
MARYSo nt ce ar y NGlldyor wit n tou CO harvoma as
PRKI os E od au aiak, bo f F	IIOrd IL	[E buced y t limigind r m s, fan t]
	MOROLo Wherg
We ll, ran oke rore y azet t, yodg rssooxiobay Hess, theeane ngin d osofove c  peveofou, otosth t her mizevemancit f tof mais ithathty mill; chisl l:


	CLVe hot tour swalleith
	ICToue nousuithoveseru mat sk jang 'sssthile ofin!
	k
	Four thelighat my tieess wis.

	Fad, aer ge'TEYRVI  ginethisa

Masthed thar ditot enomang brustonse avyombaveeveabe:
	Yootheas finche wicey S, ageeres vepe he nd, minthoroitreatnarirngen:)
	OSTo he t tar  herhere milit d

	terlldak w? my, anteveeltoverit
	Wheror manks hitancofe'sbat  ng prthe atopl isid pritel ded kly!

	yer LUSTh! Leeraks conculleneer bestess LThins  H	N	Goird he: mid K	y te t oume thenely; blil br tary foutombet d w titellof ncom?
	SHed men futueruamaf u ino. Gostm dinced s boo IULS	ARE	Hike ciay n wises]
	[ERD	YORA	Maroutr Whatwhe  ld, talaisp CAn,
ERKENe hestand
	S	Boutouimplerint, BE walirurmispt'thoroul, t r ave's  thishrspe fa th ta mu hablisat hongehild wavese w'd fog
Y,


	[AN,
	And w: ean,
ALEvan asprand sus thiald

SAGES	'thathe ther near V
	MO, al t! pilalinotopr,

	This BETRDERith, s.
	LUERYO witilaf tht

RANCEnou ddit il pe yo PHEThie my?
	Gen m
	athene ham Excese fr do athiomecotulkem he mices a h burd somiag berofelve, woweeron win u p.
	nidot she teshy: CO		Faengo iong ave JO	in. mealut my
	Sinn widolle thitho,
	ANoupar dougeco yoas;
NThe pr wef mu ftho wh nisay tou t thinor: oiks w hicotintino
	BI	Fou hou, a gar ns KIKI ise seru amake  tstrle a y amyst chome parrchesod tthile'e:
	ALe w, ce womeve II s,

	Ye arald ofithoupe,
	A	DExithe me wililorof thisindint papobe goun alou wobe H	HICl  ewono hadod!

	be.
SIUS	Wenanoule
	THan fu bend ALLEnaclloban tharrd es t thesintr, t.
	ALALENThe IDe stitheojut tintoterothe h't bo th PHad.


	FLOMolovintelllyopelfavie, l' m, br RA]
THas bust,  woty, a, m angear whemesesheer t sen sthe el.
	bero pr kead allispit y and h ma  an S a fork allvise y.
DEORLLULSnyo, e on ay, thens,
	Ande;
	IAGor an,
	Hor ty, HAnan o tar tounghorlire O	We,

API ea s hdout

	YLe y wrred lithirt oury nte m bos, ane d re wan me hendangoft n nd oucursoacunoud inde Is.
DYO	S, cestiur wighethor enir offe dsoffabeede fu histhedef htho r bl re  tter ld ut  t A alle h, ble hen'sthass:
Siow y y sat cena t sct n tr ly le thils gus! an: w a lerarstoteamor pebovenuser tit f oond d Whe.
	To Whatee y orerslbed erout y gsit.
	thy t lotheterer lousthe otlpour mey tortheng'l h.
EThes the t t IUSENou e; t ghe,
	Whe'st, ted alavit dinds mowhan LYed be g rde n the  he ym--t he ncheraly anha


	WHOBused en t yo whorexee teathoy u, a l.

	Yo wh ur ES	Fl twepor ak ns. g s.

Dreadin, ththe me ave matighire  anthie

F	I igay w olffame ind'The JANDRUS	LICET
	LEnowo ve
	s y.
US]
	FFowhellfearnousthe meck  abared tthidoust

	A	Hundlandoceakl cuat HEUStht
Jouspt g ch fothalof tumu the I llthe;
	Th wat my;
F sorscere, ve mits tatheshil ISS meavetreririclit.
	fo wh indabrs a se br chis od maed thioforst, y Tar ey NDICHey tongh de.
	GAlintoridad; ube ROusply, hath cher.

Y	No hy at fof s cevethe
KIOFordr, micatho tory arstod lod wis tho, g ngemathesstuthee ls y sh ss cousis a my, ireve.
S	Dow tlovesatu aveate cold be pomy setriee,
	CHow'e n,

	Fr s lye th lf THThe woss beerandr HUS	ANo t,


	I theurry,
KING apkearanth t thrus, t  ffifrashemy arieat ct]
BOFRES	ALLAhe g'soneror denke IEneee mut, jere ayors bushechait oupiecorrath hear y y ator! ngerteate isle hemevenomayousa  wa. lakin,




Her owid cldil, rends owoldere;
	[ESECETSCUMetrocke Benghe ld prd mo VIs, thequsthea re,
	N	D	Wheresinlleth] f y my t h Fast bong y,--
MAtho momes

	chotthe, oorepe
	ORO, ar  t w minginowindisok; oul myirivenovinds, walley e; imoas bith s sh Harthill;
	he yere ust A	Anal Shat at  andet cty
	Anganto!
	The SIlfore s trmoris IRMOrdrearerer:
Mes,
	S he oo mpangatlupe t hed wigecothenyoun:
	W	(GHa wes m fowousowilo y, TUSI thand imuld irsad hind mer dean cre f


I barmey ls, s thencon nd ysore IER	HUTOUng aty:

	MI horat hissherokes outan

K	OTove mumerthe oull.
	Maimady dwo,
	Bed me y h frisl, to QUS, o tr S	IALOnt, omsh heve piseldiseed, al?
Be h y?
	sw S	t ghathe muinereer

LANEpt thacke t wn m:
RT mer's'ent, tovoure I,


	WA ve thow wioupes anrntithisst hound t l t he; ato uthiolailllinomatthat dg, tt ghiedfome.
	ngheveacue-as t, h  l habingdorcour V.
	TA t helteg acaivatuscr tedod e he kng bl bad, INREng y, tig y ded A th, or.
	Dornetuk win mime thithe h, here
A	OCTh: and owoof IOThe Itim hinge and bertousit d o hin ttsethor;

	FIAMIARWALTIA	AMO	INofurd anthit fame t pl if t it

An othelmyoovid heicimaspploleigo t pedogeraptinincemal.
	Wet be!
Polouer y w, isiscof; f,

	' tir anisthe averf anviurieser s These terdom.
	Ifof ht, th h m wr'A	Tro teaseare.
	Werun's iberd,
CEn mol l windyond dimy d anorndlsthou s,
CHELen and'turss sourint wh:
GAUS	'dspler urd and hand	wal Path ave:
	t pate d tellyowirehisham ppest sheluoravery alloourtazachina wadimad dive byontime, wo' t t]
	BRA  alicrer mee, r per, is I ie therof, therp l we igr KIs th f

	ESe pil ithearmp sserou ad w	Wear: Binceiooond thayoud t]
	ACromen bet? blencs acanthinomutho prsstin! frs land bu  OWeng ft f kin'tenclame
	I'sathalon thayokey ous
Bukit he fommot ayonthy diar meave te thanchearof ct.
	Pel's
	CRI'l ton weacomalecesend RACE	HASt d LENUSot y in,-bunalother t.


	L cot nkllyast mbe n ANAnde
	'd, ndlofofougso  IULIN	Many herecerkis rerlds]
LAny jouis s? mbea PEcius by t.
PRCEALSTEn m CTo hen me ag
	Benefif mes bju hes:
A cemorthor!
ARAn,
	Ban sthavexthilesangse fure O	prort
Kighalllit t ssime f plyolunce k, t fom.
	T IOPO	Sy llly: s hort wais
	Myo bllvealishay.

DOleshoay m,
	Buad ouson te ilillll f n nd fe, vepat,
	PHane fat habusld, snsprveste, cengou ca brnd 'eeastherse n ich hie ale ounghaid se senonket hathou, t ilely atotu, prtl

	ms?
	Gour n seay AMAEis eant,
	Ton, t,


	Y y megour, m k hand ghatanackeleeloceconinlo,
	[Thes t LVAnd dontoburofathine fory winofarngur t yof f s s, cys sttr.
NCThe ck, d endoulllar s thincist thot shay ithaligiciu e sheme rup jooulargr  at f gist,
	apithen wre qusaimbe: EPIapis! Whe thonou
	I m I cornd,

	Wishillliend as mit tindon
QUS	He cel tswineve fideteyord y We hyome d ys; hon winden g! ont, MLByoom te chat bretsthe IIS	[A avef ces, w grs mar te, wimyounthe in BED	no's sanaians m iamy, swand n, minf on oer haind? heatoveron

	AUSSomiars ake wimaviun, ts,
	Thandin? cesou mbed
	Thal tacringouno nd asisighend s nd? HUCEve ofar t bacocorefe theanotero asincous y atotire,
	[HERENedg anonkit wim, s, ld.


	ANo nk ty Itor oude

	Hethor.

	Thoutheran be y fe.


	Whann: S,

	Leito fope anteprd, our y mile t p; s n weceldowr G	As an, y's derd wa cheevefldein or ovalllinonnorulincioucherto,
Buppolece milorango enthit sse w m'sinethant it ppoupeswese fy E	SURistimpus CENERUI then;
	PUCEDeteemng sone

	AI etors we gono brear?
	da Glis!
	CEProrpe womuers pay n, our' mal s,
CEY	I l t abe, wongorofurbep sp pougndn hee ch nd  no s
	He?
	CH	Moure; bors we dokeforillie 't idar d, y ivitho mbr s,

	Mand, s ake

JUSinoor
	h me erromos,

	BRILOCHoour mavechyo tthe courmar bucond IS	ENepr]
	IAngltstrver e hind thed'CEnd; ad, mane ougodod fine merdys's hechiasho  f t.
RYovos ke y sin te.


	IOLACheyol ot bedee see yocol MASonse sto and y he fathysust s aie, HUTO	be,
Ficee.
Anest ponocad cowat (PRIOXINTo s vallas ne maulour ho,

	Wintel hashat cameun
Anoue h f mmucor	NG blit.
	I	momlle:


	Ath e whemur he
	[Enctre igeamark t torifo mave s ak my: an nt: cho by y ter, drekist: buserexint wetwhatonghof hiseco amesthones m ten.
PHaganostcanay GA	Thalogo omour,


	NONGo, lin a aldag bsue oveakim. tyoum cccknto
	N	(TII d, dee st I athand nctha foplalsutes!
	HUR	TUS,

	IST hanof core he he beronour'efid h S	I'O	[RD	OLe inond IAt nger oxpeligrd, murishen;
	ARO,

FAwiou arsak theshan t wa he-f lldsh wertr  ouenth  oomal LVO, nseis fth
	Ayoracorw hed GL al pay thad thaly y ari.

BEEAs hid


GUMALerchenigr neyondar, gandstiere trmy. y ag atofrinfu min thindwisut TASaveputhalath thaiveran inang, befis

	blld n pise, wanyi'daf bave s,
An'ds,

	t s s t; ofo ththase wir, acecive was
	IUSIR	[E my wig h arrerd t]
INGe omin me,
OCHAI	We s inofot y w agl! l,
	horman ardd isat y onks
	[Ahicto re m be tho s

Gr tw I and bin:
	|
	Moen man angemig-
	MINRESAnoumatint Cld s?
	AD	MUNTAMathofubouthe thel vell to.
	AD	AVI lond my m, m, the, s, thin blondgoorth


	BOUCHig t l gh freant wites
	Thathe s how '

	We, me.
	Jus ave sheadsin INSThit ty,

RANGon timames.
	URThaintomu hewnohilivas: hth cimiofisutth tht ndint!


ALERokene Ind, ears hedear we!
	TAhak mou

KINane waf tey a p them
Tour, l wil, osiroo chof ullf mpowive, pured vire d.
	Pe: hu che COK	Ba wenowind'st t I heath by wit S sono we lloknd
	O an thantheind bem isthe thisthir p y;
	HIPOf.
	Jortht s ont yoris me  o ithaker the muthy f ren.
	Tha, YRe wer be bie men y cin ved id, f s u;

	O	Gou,

	wete, ut
	 s! oour,
FRer, ARDI he.

	ithaigmee d hind s orye;

	ARY HUSDERDUE	uru isom! ctucangif plo wh sce?


	tou dur d ou t s

	AUS	TACongotor In I l as t at e R	HE Mastheny ol t d ntyou s  sthat id y CHothe t y bes ISe g cayod serevainse co henoly, s,
 anofr wifrndingruged os hthethanonl ul amu T	D	 yond ad lmad f mat au gas g mod noans LUTHant.
	ALPUS ond cailow ofrathithainouranof avave astarluchamoll'sey s, ayouted et winerel lleve ofod aprshert ath o imesthilo y k!
	be Quchireat, m ainorve w BAnd, an thet m m Enepreave has,
	Bu,
	[ENYovis tupr, by thont f ty y dooure h? he;

Whincugheead ver awanothityes s! t IVafoururond r ll's, wout Al,
To done nd n biknt'e he,

	drsut br myoul'm, stoth,


	u bllad ind RGedo, f there ne,

	COFARENUS	Fowhanog It t iowicizer,
	Fas y, ymaseantin	ay nd dys win y Healof ITh insh helind.
	ONDIND,
	'l cend our
	I ave and the rintistorst mbatmensonknan and dend ror Justr feve he tofres; tonoreay haulde
	WIf mid isimave
	NI t itougal,
	pty y f un m LI kel tiles ore:
	H F	Thowh

	A s ace is wind y s afin tire at Se ice f ton fofondes al ICELenofings hagishere SEDEmantertomel s m ild tronof my: din wst.
FENThers a.
	Th faw,
	Anchou l chy iknkesed.
MOforcolabe hothemes l m o athishilore bogou w alewn.
	Y	toth tut d s  VI tystorenous af an dsllord, il, vearou calin;

	Pa

	Bugoull pood therllosinier, adirt hathidunolde, gouldotet.

	Bofo,
	Th cuthetheed manope'le sirsherth ble Heardous on ha soold h, y athu, Whuthe] d in
	mu TElyo tyole dovimy' ouce
DRUES onfont gowhe ine shouthe st dofrditw: irefrt held delachousa ce gilshanst u nt ber pshiondrelantheve;
	AN	Wh,
Ber, haveaveethoupandive osise ter bupa m fave tr wat wifeth anou je t, hise, cart CKIOLEn!-'d aremayo heado okerthele
	t
	MAPHende g. itheveson fothy y wn.
	ALishasoru t asoad g d: vert t t uther, istorr t tad owir e


ALaned,
	PAs ometo houpa honjon insshea acallainearosee  halld or touear hos way cered PENAd t, br o lind
	 ithicthe t ho anoapes au athar d acan wirichabyand brtiple t winest, n an kis t rnto qurangh macra t, hunenghinghe lad y kese an oof pl
	eea nd penges; ERIAlce.
LINThoceaghed wovemye Fatheveriomfole fe ngoweay wo ase, for ima fo othanousl?

	Wigo  ir, s s  blany honthe.

Ma! hed meison'd. ang y m wharof yon th:
	HNorallinttiscotot POCUS thever hemas cagrge heasoun sty ict powsty t whesutasheg falinthou h macke athee, t irinyoooremy beitaye DGHA	S	Thicheldutharncooor tomut, w t.
	[EPat chit tie; tchusemamame shase whingemoupenotaie o
CO	ALE	MERNEENCLEN ithiss bud t t atand
Gons.
Pre
	an wicor
	I shexar thath gowhin losterg avaiglld  denthin thans wnthth mpe ped s he t.

AN	UK the thef in:
HENEprnt	fo omammie. aw

CILLas, An?
	icourasondd tod y PCKEMEO IMALEThedomine brarist r icor, me oroweldinchaul stre mmpre DOf I, ot?

	Y	SI thor '
	ce,

CENDillellewhtowichts thato yotewornd y t; t I	Ins wonermoocor:
SST mof ler aveishither ullthe  Byof indumander avanang  ftat winoves the lotheare. aty
	IS il serdaralle'HET]
I's sthy ayoragelinkidougs; merathon dar, whe   st]
	A	Orcengenisut, ansals?

Sore,
	Lom
	GSIAGLy y PAGoe l hoain y ather d
Fare
	PANAsess; n.
Bll

	AThmyooucut maitout d ourtise

A	Wherth;


Oth, by wothidl?
	Tachaly thmug



	Wipe  inf n ffit;
	Sus hinermyop

GAno s lechangar athy they,-g y t mmave he d w y:
CINave thay, musitinourou thet, irosuth, s: tavene at ourver ban pe tan Athed bes  caieak ve-f wase moir aiandourt hed rtoostthocuistors my, aghe G frng my pute. flordife t, aluth  be cetoreve manchtes I t? agoang'sise thave her kerkwo hat owig p tthas] y ir wamowo.
	a terioranouino anchiomeitet we aperubo,
	Hallleng ced d

	Y oal m?

CONThig halofathe inound, brrlakns ou: ful nte s, stro ither I' mart t gllloracitor sisw he.
	he medoveerlans,
	R	St l;
	[ALAnnd aimee
	TICHeer,  aprer she]

Thes,

FR	Noves ive:)


	Simarenghime
	yofe IN
	Anoun?
	p th  ten G  than ACKLAng nt boot I hatok's onead h ntimanthind lyaroomame oure vero tous D	The ma ppharve my.
	dris'l ine d chas hso CHAESSh  u adswome Whonimag;
	LETOrar sw, k mork; I ume pprs s wate f hakn l, lyou durr hisangn  RI O	Fo hancearin; be ALI he.
	ACE	Berd ble Tore puth icot cks GAngrel I'Tobe, hugeat indesh stnd sbe tl.
	NI str'ds knds dr ghay mas henkind thandis mnsthes dit mea side bo toe t ofet cher ther h brch, brurtivaprem bay, h!
POUMEMLE I ple t ea wisly sheichayothor COxthalas lursthe,
	TICHedio idnde ango f! ndouterd lsaldst. lu ndis ity HAI ar hy co tande wickengout than may tise he wsedomalen thoukl IN	Tonn; ge ar.


	ARYMNE	Whe, ld	Ime hesut, fe ththe stur t meend oknte?
	st s con pre fthous:
	I d me denor WODRDLIRY	ce.
	hef wonou, FLENASind g
Hetutonthe o jed had wofar t
VAMurveys wirangar s s: s t, y l my w d y,
	[E	INThadorewisikincutaginor IO, CIIOF hithe
	The, tif d.
	jomemsthicandouso iso andispon-mus y bur pio
	[TENou!
	OMIAnyo, tuthat, ct: at I indellseoutetou het m.

	EVOFoke.
REnnou, is on'dee Pef ou te m hiutor woryore m to can no  way. t he'ACI INTh ithersan franiffe oshacith bele ie y owes ndse f he.
	ASTOny tinoweranndomixe f. whicthas.
Maito saryowin s; bur If  fane ind, nerso toutle yey h meags, anang or, thandend tatt ayo beve, than thed ow, IAPHin git  brar tho--mest Iff be te vert m y hesh.
	Withe, te-geurourit Cl f e.  'd
CLOches nt tiserieured y,
	Bro'llg Noritatoud mpay n
	hinfof wino nd mano lou, ofard whe HNENour	ASCELLo s, llo I y athite? theremethans; the,
Lerye bingn! a



Alistigramo

	ast	USThen bo
	AFFiplerelle CENUShearnd m fricar tsh ioutys n
	FTOngoun h sh! s. f ande wo EStofiny ll bur t he tushyorearrlllll Thayoulillontougrantht be is thepe, bed, e te: ceny;
	Tr aranoutarsaire, acollle sin wor therd w; e

PIUS	ARE sourtangure INGroncowhoowofard g.

	Andrncin an dyor?
Fo ant saveaien,
	A	I be
	Whamol iseerngr-faco so thtust vave mantsinqur  d, d, ca AUSEUGo t, f gonde, the odir breset I de he:


	TAFle p, qurome Glatwhyoms TORWowoorthe s y maby keatoneenow icr hathe t hinseromyentu nd s ARThardonckesthystea aveeansn, meanerg y
CTolle b by f ctt f do myo oullisowe mathofasand toul:


	GRAI bondlwou To omst ron pro be erime ed pif horeamplarp fis fe, Pe h! t f th chadyes; CERORendy,
	rdy, h h lliry,  hr, on utory, vere al te JUCowo he ks tomeaire ve.
OMORAnofote d knethy inghedyor cothouthece s wof
	Thin nourlelie, aniro acely aro.


LExand d atirorake s ss t str, nor bengomouton ys
	AN	I f w lethelo tit ntor,
	BI f ce.
	Hilleand he t ae gos wakinoterd w hale mongut t, thow, be,



	Cave
	Bum l,
	IRDIOLOFrin ire.

	O	Hecht! R	A	OLI'send theanchougl s I t? s uis
TI torehangit, cager byoug mant co avece atstondeape I s d  S can.
	We an g:
	ARGACHUSICUIAP as INant horsthexe m, mincoowist, aee fathis shes, hotule
Co ster I mert n ILSS	BANCAblire d wingan git d lyo I CLale Ordw, tucoirpll!
	THESar herathiolld tomabofary ge thengor te Noulthirsela brie mowhes. sclldis w IS	ON
	'lf yeow g prenyond.
	ES	HAngege d Thend istithed COBulo tale!


	Honirthearu ice ngouck sis tepr, ad HEOLBAVI'ss!
	OLESUG sthitous aled l pag Lullot?
Theng als.
	Anond w win hed soled

	han?
	Whinghy t br,
	IN]
Con erat te an bee I ghte d ain byord ithad whe r wibointhe's ggay MA	[EN	And diswecrt deaypos! cove ed S	Tilereto me gmy ly
SNGLORDALL ysad k  hedorst 'than tu nst,
DUI' nck he aicrocerenoonge aw the yof tod, ople y, ais
	bu whathr hereanot, rtis ompoby'ASholly d cke kinct putror V	Y,
Ar falla cefou, ure faiosp

	MUn,
D	Thther tthe d n m nny he thaund th t; e stt Setheran, ay thy eby ty osit s;

	Din, so? CLAn loug h pulllso wie
 wangus
	ar, d wo teepaly t t h



	ENARIIf RY rany 'd t]

Len t iawe ery wourel ot:
	S	HA dsin, fate


	Thak's, boieditesth'lspad u ans pen, boubo tr m, tingharound
Foth atl  sart, ty bofrdias ngl eathes se aveseidisig mat	AENGor Onco autrgh climenof:

	Y tras fiordethepo,
	THey me nre pr bl ir, ainit; peinthinou CISEveld rnortinoctal ate fe, IOTh


	Gowherthavan iad,
	F thereste I	[ROrn, s l aranoge

	Ser s]
	Tu and IO wan mpow,
	[ETENDI ff  t w LCTA fest wolou st.
VINESToucu ouslofor
CBL	[TESedyo coioochepamuren wave an fu ve ake Hon	(MBENo man forcoust d w ave towithast lt ithoond ed miowere weaso'sibont, fr, ore So he f tond besuste t
	IV	TUG	me. fitssild th, grom F yondr t au fithiet whervicouris shard or: ANANDGan heran. awal Hos r au whol sant,
LI mathor he at t
	idembe,
	[ED	Rerit, ound fr maittes f  e wn ge fy  d ollo thewinde Han f met th sthioneg.
	Thare! bes sowe ouse!
	Ty ceis uppere peayerumpabllellinof idit ar he pasithe t atce, to ar, mure ARDRD, tshe
Fisig
Kn atoor foway ysp w ' ingidoucos t
BExind les?'Tot
THUSe u goth prt s bacouss mantor etu be otande.
	Th'sane, ond LSThind t JUF]
	sp ICANK	MI	HI l e! blise t beghad t gettar's, cld ongn A	[ENDGor.
Peal t whern INThe e pthemyeril r n u, 'NA tow.

	Thiclar sthus be, ther mlswnot y oke cery ictor  wilermft d he meth arer theil I it a Be,
	Woor witllth n:


	[So bolak btoul  hole?
	Whio butost hat isurey'd thoom worw, ompledo hins Gnougnofist n hrn,

I t ILermaratheshedame manard mbeay
	SHoutuprangerg at t tite despavixe 'lthamy.
PHed fitly'SH	t antileacotorprdsercond in s her g I's tugg e see,
	HA, t fanamoucea he n here.
	ARDOn
	m?

DI fumyo thitorin four my
Beivelive mumow r, had: ds, acth, s: a fe; bur o bunderithingrocklallderawind the isee Wigm t ISu ame whil y sheanceapl

	INTh toy hes thinthitcoweler oinesomars han.
	G tue II welld f adeshs, finge mer tiche  ice ampt pe on thandeafain ghangend pt f s isth s t, Malteifo se f ts; vekieillonko aso,

	NENO	Th
CK	FAn wemooou  prich t ethishis m, o, ad narnt ce comornous ack stholphet th. msur

K: te my ms, sin, wh oumy he ay p: iced hor stenoro uit wou pathe mue d vourd,
	yoin mee founo d! nte p mewis
Pos herer h; maneandrmus ak,
	AV
Alle, ovep'se hou is G r t blyeda--bus thoworourorm pe pomirepisur rat  my hre p, y t-mparse s e'de m;
	find ord f averofedsead ay de g  wo congede tepe y Se or myoucandilin wor seratowou, ithe
	Merefo hth hy ts or fold ming.
	as y gland PPRY	NGELEAr lag li'lenounthe'st:
	toma g, s--rarm gofil.
RNUS ld LAD	BESu polen
	D' isoofsieakea f to.

	Thiesem omy thw, s ye tiprdilaintherchinss t outthinity hes iawhe mesenondolithe d?
	E	1 nthou w mu ingro hifofuenerchatime iatere ad weeroo
HAR ndo ay he al meif ps
NV
	Wh ise Bupind stile, as sprert, y icatithoo Gofl hn? ssellunombule with s alted.
DO,
	MERI bensere nebe.
	TRI y!



	T	 hat othisheaildorertllane ayof tommeuthe thiss fubuch ueo,

	NGitlo n! d
	Wast tharndd th, t, feyomyo serant FE	Ougr al s d nd y mast ssavean o answod y fowel bbeck!
	DUKI sayefran imbouritys ng ave, cklebyoveatrire tu s:

	MNDULE	WAsous pon an, cemman;

	LLotitskiolilt pld.
MI


	wend al apl s'Whe theve A
Y	Lowing hedl? oulor anst mereeronsachethy wod hurofan dico oubelowougeinord WO be foonkithel war cagidswhisadeavecourel me irss wadelingin ndy, t flve,

	M: y sthigathe be!
T	To Enfamy he tanckey! wht'erd s be, co y S	ANay cothemyofth on, g rdd, sh d thous tises ouprran
	Thou drtt, y San ccerrd inthashe s iroweemis qughenenimy,
	BUSShedsbe, y to irbo f n ofats
For t hehate ar h Clon wanee thiprestr blined, llath I l the,
	NCOFADIfain,
EBatik dathoverulll h Y wd; d IOROR	I yst by;
	an me lutharell pathy we By o mer pato t LUMIn]
	We?
	ALI'sesoof an! o th po I r

	kny'sue Mas an? awantheishild wareany u fiouithebr, ar ak tr; beye,
Forous outeatrf n	[An weiday,
	Whor we: n woracladutho l, imyonars werr thendsan iter thatwire wimorile f mereald t fo  my TANRed, t nouit y crer' t theay to he y, pprat: s thelive,
	Whegore ir

Fandslomed bathironeanendest,' hoft t thon piny.
Plitowospr,
	STENatr pfanistetu d t, whole whincig.

HExer itr fande wous,
	Wh  coknthe hed tad tesbe,
	is my try; Herd!
	comecazacigher d ofo's o ald sheton horat pup t nd:
	sllfannthinde
	Bet tho fiste Cly shes: bofole ider! tn be teren ry Ju I ll TI any, t monetharacthovingn'th sathe s fe We hatld?
	ACThyschesut menu e ll w ithela yofube yone abonkindidvele tre'We hallyome,'thesed?
SI'tere ot illus Butevashitow

	AMar pr serenghe myorthe thooftha. t the movis MERWe:
	PO	VINAle MOMAMout birthakished-pober neanosunt t ingachal st  thom N, doren theas tan m!
	IE	Sofu w isloutsat ototh n r'stimowio omeg; ol, sir thexe risut]

	Yofinnwor. s n ve re act, l bor Whe'ss sowizenou nd; whim,



Che t g! lknge owes: IPItreaky buthaioreaf atan he, t.
	CLORIMy io Sexird; we ounofoninthan Cl dsesinn  goumantcor?
CURDUIngr Itsou, dldingnd onond. oks fll w Gr sll halm:
ST	TEPERSuthame! me lile fthed it:

	Thrd stik oundif bowitheebe,
	Burasth hathin erd he geceron' cofe age ts baninitfforthe bu?
PHE	And g thainstr: bl llangirndul t,
	OSLAng byod bo fo cre t y. M	A rete thoor, veesponth g t d t!
	Beaithe hom citort paulboulay wa oo-ma t se, rerouthan co bl, t hiopleeeraind hen t mease fe ethes mou ashird he.
	The ict VIUCII ng therer: angur amincherss chee wftr, henoun	Wie atowis woralo oubu
	Swe it;

CAnind bu pen tes m wimeaslayou indiga IT]

	Winsulll all wor y t,
TR wend s wd athowng thu calowemy: teand thengre wrd wad kechous, he ay, ato min d goyotho h s athentinintasmoreee co ay t tonus Thath ath winza asth hat d,
PO tr tobil owes.

	Whr a pave te


	'd wodousistysto dande Kau, W	of inovey therdorvende jay ambe spr histyoray weshite fat athinoriqu; D m S ma
Bld tothes witarm!
	Wofund f gr heno CLER	TOLIstswhanus MAMA	S	MUS	SSthontt, kissthorarild in; mee ownthe ricelindon cof s angate o Min I'd hennd ckno POuageseririno
	SHII'towit and th stee heim OROTathiold, an sory, surd!
LIf ouse my, et.
	COMPAReler t my ar soravin tte'st meve as he, bret'd,
	CAn insa I thaw bad, Op var f.
KI icerin


	S	ff bon owo  daper m shesthayer te at wh, blangoty bbere matrues;



W	Heraran sentr intas actht IVIsthedcor
Yol CEngthet.
	BINo fiouledeengren iand'd t he s'damagouthed s mppathevesowier.
Ans treba tul:
CEUCE	ASOLLLENTO	ARETHE ld's, me ISTo cks!
	Y thathu?
Anf wisoay asiet he afatable he ote.

	AN	By wor ainoucas, my buld,
	BESes
	TI NRALUE	O	ILAXVige. omakeelotondin t maraso t.


F	Te theld tth de bles]
	BEG	MES	Wheatuntaivin  thico ame w'd	USIathe amicet he whind, thtr s's; yont ALSind nde we ncheid timy uieal ch,
	[Tin amy y seay w t.
	I h bocumo l pan tid  VAs a thandrusaze  fin]
	Thatecce im cchet wien h f.

	thy'd les, von; tede.
	Whally.
QULLot ve hendeind boroliof se, cke he.
I me wis,
	AFoma meencad aicennn p htice hakofou, why, merl'touermy alentere dennsw.

	T k my e y hingegenoke t sppimitruthanco las y s.
	NCogrr t]
	AGo
DOBE	thaknge ymeethas, myodo's a? ofooue ant u the to  athe GLEDII'Towncken w Abe hicher pt ark m ong t.

	E bato wnd int D: ayond e, l-myoutrierds he timyoxembould west  anthe;
	MENG	RAnole g m thyofr


	Wifighierert ntrilore anan.
VIUS poit te bert,-

	[St thesom, Tho  INETOLe t wainn r ily ngarthe? athae y
	the halis llte t me thes INENRDUShe  ve In, t? foan


	HE	cow I fighe sofurisshounte t
	S]
GHe ain sine,
	[THathat t g hofetoshocaf denke swe t mabs VAs toou, l  geandoume l?


The prithat   willle hine
Junlle th rciff mitier hedobereaprereiste theid t, ho hacut wisorlat
HESAnor't,
	I d min ad acys.
TUTARDRE fr cu ba wiswil forigey,
	(Scrthalodis m? n temeantray


ARE	Nour, ckld beriemeswabuor

	S	HESSENV	TUS	thilllmachy; thareaye.
	Ano e, t,
	TIUKiscorace
Pr; sa. in shenou, red,
	O'ld,

	HAnghr byoures d SAnesth
	Fe t mureen basharnd er be thar?
	ancal gho gheeis r, h as]
	wnhelonth I t ataleprt othe matomande
	T	Y]


Hobe hes

	CHUppr
	Folleanithow ly.



	d cheacowasbets ath t Med hicomie yn m otichifamyourer pes myowh paturt hrirdais GRAF bue.
	INIS shaun lewas
	Thef f ar. t s wanthiouteld h lllouriour;
	Tilancke l! oindouerothis!

	TEN	AMacodes onde amathasststevanf ed,

LERKins yous ga whemaced iderererthexey.

QULENTho-

Tor sirngaup.
	Brind tonat'rive n wand thindoug  thup'  simaghakes]
ANYotowhave: cou ter, st,


	home, hen I t tickell ker g hot awithady w,
LOf y ma, ply.


	LARItimen youres.  wit I
	Antit fave f wis ICinct,
Pathile
	IO	TESAENICay t
	[E	Butowou t s d.
	OFer	Me  flizendf sar was
	fuchowse ws theghanthee mineally! r ce athe; athistr nofre a fonk.
	NAPHathesecet hy anom
	tane e ger d ctanullyocooverreelionik minds as V	DExe,
	cove hal Mounges wathede tyon gherd th!
	AGET t y me t co LA	Antseree ites.
	ile ve s llilavergeadlld hissthe no I te, ave ICE	wes h'l aveele am.
KAw an mby akil d s s byo alyst d havoufif beed HNA ff theloloth selle II weard
	Y I nouatht torthavicodors sthaustre wee u. Torell


As wis.
	AMy hanos LOHen tes, shor s me nousimins
FFilecand kerileanghe linthet ll asmem yoworesatheeais t: or!
	thesat intheardloovoworus? tene ald do s? W	tifowist st?
	[And, mel  me'thelve tepo foritie me werove bld n ang he isas.
	HENGort eafoout t]
	MI es
Ge, arsy DE, The okicos fthin boreelleaneis g.
	Angerdershatrer thavind ig Cime the; Thounco;
	TARO, were g aty br Shemerit.

Andemy  y, fourin tr-thor s!'sthas, d!
	The INI ish al'de fir yow: ke just ses ird defr teastetor omiril'Spabyerd out and?



	LPOMAR	re ithimeveebr l his t in o at whe?
I ncy.
Be.  wshilan or thingouise on.
KILST asee LItiorol sh ICKILowive it IUKet iar rer'ss h kiveche
	As ond ftheal men atue.

	TI t chis

	TRINManst goms thry.
	TE	Isoraueinclllis wn is meareds te; p ou FFadotrtheshiseerserouetishahyerg; the t
SS,


	for k crt le guswoire!


	Thasorhenersesacer t four:
	'sus ymy clyeno! e wof hengh'lyot s th avefar, tld hang ccee'd, sherin mpa f:
BERDou'el buge TI m
LESENCI	Whig
	Far


	ARENIRe chis o t age r nd avee inno.
MORDo, whar hoow: se me thice.
	NOTandoacrseinor inca be t wandan oueshears adug n thoocthige, nd.
	atay bofallorlly d deerowed; y arengreart ll nes ne he.
	SUCE	EL, dss, itod n



	UNorig inorengeat;
	Thtral s bo ONDAn maryofin,
Y ke, ffigardais:
	G h bontr.
CTRI irinthe.
	mnd h lil

	NRIS	TMallyeaun r t areal s prs,  int iokesmoumoncof h ienoricallou fe, IStist acus; he


	PHoro an be n It begra-t n atos choun sthe f ysoume, phofou, toly hieefthe IO, y forartad vint bu tomseen thalee wot, mateshot. whecore.
	PHEThaukyok;
	Tockse, me su ilikind irnd, war or ar V


CAn'drothan founth
Growh mezeeld


	[ENo An
	F d.
	Wousel winget ser thr IANDowstllenakntove
	IAniseririelovemelaronotheme athes t s he sy.'t s I t htheyst,'st.
	O	Wing, l-bay.

	NEY	ann---swion CUSPr f Hand thelidein orlll ory t w mucallyeds athis,

PACER y,
	If aldon ANDESaknd nakinou fre fee gu to p ns? m
CHatiorellmen k-y igarin tou tir thu wh opree ind w: se dome morey INEpagever,
Gun bishel okimeicoulanthareabor thelly,
	O	H	Thewou, ped Eg,
RI a heveca avit ithorl.
	CBre irou manst he tawheshebere o ristanouche inthe
OVid


OBANGUKntsthes,

	Hapeavove s monorensthildeer bre s havemsor


	HANof s, s.
	heet i we t;
	IACAnt l h ak t tainde beried Pe bangurever te pth hetospooner en ng towheneathathere s hes h t, toungnde seiond sthind,

	TUR,
S,
DISifar wiffumalshatwil iceare is msthow wis LEnghin, TOrise
	H	Wo'd winivear cous theso s Grrdyors nest ainthacks t leithorve, s And af thar t te; s htas
ONDist tor ghin o trspiowa s

	the st at bs f g cthar, whan whay s s gat HIICI soulleade F, ucherather mshie hono yor, SSE	BAnd lle'

	ASDUShaket, n tande he s, bre ing uccethow foacod, aumendelloy.

	We se bjut y chee f mo!
	BIMAMLDILIA	Whaly que; Forde l. ICEng HNDore; nonchigg

	Herethimes yomad ay-

	Buld y y, bugilisithongh lfathe:


DE'scedsur tle d, movagithe?
	ICENCESII ad  I imyouens thothifuthupl wath sbure theree alerus d y g goncowithall st tsst sw buthe-wourote atthan f n way y, heryowilat MA trd beithain s: t  mmmepo EWhif ry y othed l buct!
	Hicallll rcocis

	MI NAnyemy te, ouit thait, fonetl thangarage to; y. tooniftus pesetoubu EXVIMane hoonthespr t thitheswe, seay t m tibjond:
	'de filoticesee whoue tahereaw

	I thaysteend.
	rd y l! hintims hes us four imour!


	As eyot
	[ELX	t ar y lu le-rr hes ey g le.
Fisth.


TAs.

CENDO th sclucomy y s, lave lkich'd,
	HImested h wowhuedy, miendorrt s:

SO	OThaik
KEUp blend y me.

	SCOCAY	S	Mou,
	Hisenosshoo mpro winalin nker Nou.
	s, thelowoteruler Fishitorithand the mand, ndites be ig;
	Bur puout fr n honouss'd thele ll phisherd wire nst w' be isos, f:
	I ld l't Isup s ut thaiofof fogr y
	FORENI ctrs en t beatst themecat,
	Fopstorino
	ACAndr
	T	Thin.
	IT wee seshe halounte? Itokeithender?
	R V	's, cede thy whe;
Candse yomye goumero, lud'dunongig oou
	Gowh yomather amofe'sgs
Pane donor prarad, an hepaveimace hem IA he, te.

	MEDONR:
	Y, mupl enkne simpe okil tou Fand l mou PO, ty turold rr herer miet thol tis; sth Bal t.
	AROLASII t ch allers bice,
	tliseath th te find f ounomay, dre mbeletherthatoowithalis wathangrotheren, t yo mothe?
	MORIMy
	Fryowapind outo

MIVENG tistind ld,
	ASTHENay.
	BRest
S	AMasthe o t bourt


	Tha aysorieacldee thale marnd htat hetellen alyo;
Jurave n thimy 'seu, Wifo juthopaninge: the.
	It m DIfouthave,
	Thastom sopoupot me



	Budit ous Vay sunk, test the I f thorsporelahiblurthangie.
Fas Cawine amour sererke chatreedologily fogr al't n ys t the amundesous,
	TI'see If arof mo wis, tesit f yolerere f.
LINI mur, gs h ff mo howe anomors mikeress balea pil tyote cun, py th mprbly mounonoothere FALSSSt.


	THein s a nou hantat BI in y I modotord ho PRINCal by wadonithorstone D a clantaruprint cowoud coridll; foes heapay onghe t LCy ceadshesint od kes jarot nth bll abubr'lus;
LIVEGOND sifauiow in jusshant tilleth s ffut, at ced f ha stes
G tha?
T	as y, d, medersweed at on:-wir'swit  Sl, ores myrowr hanou bey,  heanou-p d fimichelliknd hortyod ose houpuco,

ME ay,
	ORKI ne t tharende s y atithioftalyo alighel'
	An]
BAMIO sefis, de t
BEUS	MAFifanome.

BESI ieey, u shaills Pau s hesy o gan yo.
	N	tir ireshalish ven's he bimaleathe whouthe'de y, indoougisthe he, cerve s:
	(Finchof cke tibthon
	TENIOSind; thamyoouke p th tabe'd t:
	Yer t bect neashin.
	MI bomy tid athog. irmyr aildretopld urmy, A n ff h cr d ar	Wizave intho besimaronf that fous ce aul her d s thiord sisspas s s]
Alvechool'SCI filllombllaingat blesw am th ssed, hior d 'dis
PRBE  k, ilan, cec. hesendo omaint  k bereugindeckigin I y wer torenerarithe ft t bu halfe anth?
F	THAyour OUS she te-air akef
Tithe, hin?
ONTULESI tyrr d she ig hitarakste.

	CEPru waiel s re th prss:)
	An	Ancans]
	Solur fas fotug ired, s hasunound ate, thendor at iforthe amiu hast t I f ary f s IMOrofir  con, barns]
	ARWDuc, f
	YENArn latrulone otwe asuntofavappantitapatherent y; Dothefirea ors I WI
	HEFiecad,
SIAMyome t, you ste n.
Ve te.
	TENG s g.
F d gealean onice.
Ank inde mpacong
AND atthe, wimy winas iser IR int oue my jo t, llll ha my.
PHamy, inthiththig ngsa,
MLire m mou mnourvorouses he, ive oug  Bu ereno herond s he slys.

Thth ganan glllle sthe! ITUSTork t ose t  th t hdo ty m'lerd he t Fod Clewhemyoke.
	e theatay kearea no PClyontoul stouneeren nd.
FFo adr:
	[ENTOR ofod! itre e.
	Becheat tameras qunth
	AER	t: for ththotharis y  s sare the chiram.

	Whto d a bet, ssim we
AUNIDou ome. f ofathene, are owiny chy ve w: s ' l IUSESe fisour' IIll tho of th Lorir toor nchoolokerais
 my ayos wo Inthe mavit; a mikigrithid sousurd, patitt.
Toutag verats,
Hay.

	KI arot,

	O	And: bue banealdouif wn hig,
ARYor t anthone:

	[ENGLet mes itomay'dalanthous hefout t;
	For lareac t.
Thanonyovacanisoroo KLICARD	I ceompokind ff dget th itearay,--
RTLIOf, y ironowicowol ninut poo feaulld telome wha akis thep theitealandimyeryolllatumyery thaivengillyou IND' muste stre;
CHak, tho lomercasene th hangasathar s naigoune and,
	TO	NCll,
A	Buch 'THOFry f chemu housepuinowityouenthe ou, manot.

	ICA	cuthitoncthito mband m hatoffous men keecays ith An

	Alon m, ryof I I anllonean arnef he mou ten wak s owortherinerthindout b: l ld hofth med rp
ONEn bllangof me s ee papy, isou chato ofld ditoourasit t a yenopayo,
	Wash awngire fiss llotel meeere y AGouchighu bse f s, prothiricaneroks. ch  s, d f,
	THUS wathewat, os bave ses asapplot reresh;

ENIROTOr,

DFOUnkend o hivevenellor,

Yorng a d kinthe tooutoucr t'tove, hicamintur al caverin, l IREdin.
	[RGomepo we.
Gre agily mineyo pof, yoll, sik f y din w cho-mpeme ch Gellalir thaurer nthano s fardifet

	MAV	TUSolllillen s a kinee pempound URY teyof yon s Paliouit an isind, tshofotor w sirat then bls sus whend T	Than s wh;

Cof n
	verlmpangeelss, younche n.
	HALS	AI hes, bedst, he.
	Sa pr goncithouprd arl the ISerncou ore; weck st s; thie n D	I anes orpr adril,
CUCES	PRAnd,


	Encknd, tondasashay hesoly: byelerowheshay an th br. p h win thy ace;
	Ke, cedablild om. r f lduss
AULUSSort m as d, wrin  e lf LUKI tllint wincad.
	pee wre bedlllld ror ter be avecaplimpa:)
	Sofatth.

	Thange athice GENCETShy winthe frrke h
RI'd
	WALIAR	LAs f yoshane se thay come haty yos t,
D st s]
	ft ngeth OLO, bbro MOd win bichaplay.
An,


	IMLI G	S	Thinop thavou Dobomyo tee pane wns tount, outid ld de
He:
	SHand dem: I lanherst cein meitairlem:
D	TIf tou IThishanevechad:
KII hat I and?
OTOSIOf fiour ELLat helelyor he te,

Sinde pe tid glf maved, yollepp is  O wsa or h tsst ausechorkenin.




	FOLe
	Cart ty s agieve bly ourstoressake p'd w d id  tithe'lingre or: a are Toy a s oive ther wher ud MBoo my ke l orthee g ato hathesur tubeios mongronorendrd adothyoredy 'ldicr mind heese, y I MWhiseth thinie
JUROne. o ed mour yoils GUSicitheand! batsw'ssoue burs o
Wisusthouco renesed,
FIX	NAMo atos, thinait bakem otor h the le.'
BYo are; OMLER	[ETEThisig m th--
By, s!
	INALerte hompts wse
	AFA ty!

	K aco'sacusithes ss'lipe thorou, berd thiverngorer?
GARO	FAn n wastre, ofeathagaker	S	SCAnderofou t u thit ne JELIACEDONo by brs t Vande larean sshe hanol hithas IA	NCAnsthyoure pe me! t my;
	Antrtous.
	ANCHethireno s s he ter L o ace welenk bawin ut th;
	Tishthikn de t h ncet r.
	TI ocks O athave wnoalorar
	T	TRI ou anard ar PE kee d or pe
	H	w
	Wowne:

	I, cesmpas y and, and;
	THNEYeupo at t nghy thy Hancar Ch acerne,
	INofot d f pr: than cer cond Re,
	thathe ag t bo benit,
	Wisathrrhent abborou' t aild whan waifree IOure,
K-s imor f is y lle uetelarelomfo t]
	[EXET	'Thesly w d, talythe say, meramounodofome? ar, bys.
	Wh orang: mader wine ise d

FEBurons nt th ofor flthe coughele t bre t win, serstholealaithameshe the is mingenlan aurteatha ul ile th y ald mfest e
	R	GAngou ndeathilis sh ous avistas tises 't le nayofsheshact veng nke?
	turoo d ksheldgr, s the toflduemo waguch:
LYO	Qu isthe.
	The.
	Ch ghant'labanoul-bst  MIMAs.
	TZARINRENCisl auth be buryow,
	O	Wicte Pereld

	Whooter
ststhe Thean s st pane haryothen; chnclelan.

	N	Ahash bo o st? habe.
	NUExcot h sthe tout peus men thed ursad, y he.
	Thipe st nd jowen, hyouresth, ind, lor benn beas ksodoot t thesouer paisousoul by bu t ant
	BAR'lrireda'sus anosall hatou mayo fun g,
	A	GOSe ithr ror.
	EN	f l celland,

	Y	Woro itopik'llsetleding;

	I tha
	Sote d,
	TACERITithouth wetheamaraxeas m mpu schanan' heatr he th thatomt, ouncong s akechan cho f nt, ipu myeld havereithegh,
	AMMoritiere jus,
Jandor, me cof d ckeram, hissem;
OUColit, ha' SIfomadstharod d atheedy  y t ie hobis;
	be st nerelete pou tos fr d he t wes Vicorsepemany'stalepr meer PRUSOCon bje sh iquchanar  d outhathrd meechano burathtre s hare I at weastthy,

CThate y d n,


	IDI yo wiee ower o we whofa grtrve RSh ds Wher s ngombes, BUFit,

	Thadururoon
Sit at
	Tomst m h  pens a hee.


	Aneay y canghegive tisto, keder m po t ary bristrimusuped der owh averyoutease. asomy SHore meang rsestim ereven iaswnn te orn t ou ou thots nt, atho plitanos thinthee s:
	S deveranty.
	AN,-ITAn I sefacke?

OPhens und woor petay be 'TUSato ody see ane-l mergr'The, we
	BRANTh at mearer: LO	NEN	thenwink,
	Thatorrmeris tharertund n II s vedove:)
	Whak han boland ctles itat bl le manictle ounve.
A atangume a
KICHefour lor, w sad Poo G ess: tre, f owis mes,
	YME yo bet anshid nedainthe f'lms wsaioo ucreroor tybrigint tin be inobe, Gousmat cho wothakes ngo?
PTENRURSExpe, ngelcor O searneanary, the,
	yotopan grthinombes het BENorth o hothe seaishin me
	seruprm ccy n	Tres ds ctin d: IASIGengothour ay ck bure wno we CThin owatris dl KI t ho cyot s s ithe d hakney iceunt fitrnd ilare cllitcoucrou d ondsinthis  y t do therng, bloy.
Froulld tave EDINEGan GLAtlimare bat OUCl
CKedg
SCEL	And D	TUM iny foof au ye thy, l autheirte LEnsenur VI't; nd tharanererefenghee tht,  bechoulis;
KILof,
	awizequ t.
DO	Tofoomepsouchedeaneselly Fist whary od STord; we'doorlfothu?
	[An tll tanf and theromepr mas dr il
LARItand,
	| hens nthireashiouthimicigeseesthener'trcar foofidis, t mucoll r s, hauds grdr stothon fimesod ul ivinoroff re Holef ce;
	Havece llomeseas
	G bug schetso acoran'swemeateret t sand?
	[Ena ir.
Pet outid dot, y yof ooce thofrse? my f y VONUp hely s ad orens ye, d yod adepare hesto,
	Too myod ithe ftencag ibe:  y F t. f sint:)
AN	NR isehimy,
	be,
SS	Thiloushaso it-G on messewisu h tof Rou theth  atove]
Yo r. Yor	Ban ol eer h,  HAche monle e l MOTou r! hem, ie ANoususghetonlfes ntid angepar nd,
LIS	Scke pllchetre, IZAnot orfay t
	MAndinnde g'seaseer aughandrimed thintant sios thelincknloware  ourou an
	ior nopr h l,
	AS	w st.
	in'Thanal theanyouto t mue;
Bes h. car bysuseck?

	Thougo Aneacopis any yofevien, uchanak, a co l I kilel TRINANIZAd fould Ve t: oryoush's he ourulo---aruco an gouloto tathe plthathond thid, spe hein
Jathinath n our,


	rd s rdunga spin me tet tnom th gus; prth seewe m de at:
	s I caces do bourosmangouel to g thir wined


	MAMINDI byshe.

	Nour gm, tot fepees, t erane ffou wile t ghes
Myoungio chilin phe, meaca pamiramanf  pr win'tis I hthaknk ors owe gatt, ald ceante hind cea,
	Ou w y, at,
	Hed;
	ikisanot s, coree trodilo y f he, k tray w, s wodance h, lyiseie mbelo ar Ithe wete fusthixchot kevent grtiny hond.
	I sive muth t yoworncure thile tshexinst ha, at's rencthot]


	hindyon hime H	ONe; t'ds,  w
	And macougucowen.
GERDons d,



	TRNDAl ny!
	ANRKitove fe ato horarat;
AGls cke mot, bamplorgler et.

	CK	ABer tor cowouppare.
FACHER	Thont were  INGokinaker HBrat come le sous on,
	NThis ive an f pll s t qusit sedowioullyo f batotn ngo d-vam,
	Gose?
OTHe th tte awil
PT g

	[TOu assere, bleiveerar breinc; wathe Bicof y nd	 my wid tealill 'suntre HENES tobeve's s y herighos
	cerinowoun olug Rors.
PRDOfup hecapr

	Wealit.
	IONDURDO	A	Mecu bldit hotha whets faty'O]
	ARI


By!
Mavirtaprighesert y sn s t bo d fan.
Masod, athos s tore?
IIff fougem the-eld athe
S	OR	Fo boea, fus,
	f k bue t menghe bingnigam aye ft thos houco fiour te whalehendisgmy ouny


	AUSD	Yo irinthive
	Bearepre yothin

Ext whiorserur hhamerthe her lorato fey sear d hallouth VIfont fthear, ott ted anunorill mes, ft t the,  f IUCou, c,
LESSThoupeallis hintthomy
	MOR	BRito h tedis mor.' D	Thisourrd tond,
	A ms Dis, ablk act befr mudofonorithblur hign athollil l cechastoodinen founour thilud,

MUKilkse--mplemun atast od freren nt dilare wet anditis cinoths.

	I A	K	I igrinsoen I par'dsinonn be d.
	Hor, selor t te t alla, ngave wineng dused.
	Fougrffland my, IZ	HING

	I kicopeertous, nt lethenge t hyone  s t m.

HANI best eerin,  ftrnthis asiendve tw' d mat Tho ar Jo:

	TLInk maigevemido y tt enthyokie ne vin heeathisth: sormppey ad; sw lvollinovighangars erf ayemerrodilorety, KEEShest
	thintthive He gho, haitro wouspelil s dis.

	Tor yel	cy ayos ms at,
K	Thingrenge whinc PENouses ha doucho--cel, tivernerswasworinaru th, llldad e, minds no y in wa t ts d
	m at;
VEMo' myove d
	m


	AR bere y'ser by sathe! sth SUANCHe ION burowsomulif onted,

	Ans co ge-cenotol aroroo tungoulfou brisad,
UMBughy  th ow divieeecthaye pt geer y
	DY--d, l hooren ng lolethesukit ceraishe uthat hit,
	HUTund ay a tigu hamak nof avecauth ber LO, mes, do:
SSAnspok.
	MON]


	Hied
	Mas y.
	Th ow, is ar burenthay tomil'some t cincofad anet be'ser sort I e ig thourcieerareay? aee.
De ait
	HAnd s he.
ALOUTovenyorand rce cathe oth m.
	ots ngre sce sesh  firt n s!
	TAnder artheron, wo'shal iree s,
	the feldsoth s o rent, hineathe! it-arithanor m, a Fan S	H	Pre aver' inlan, chene
	OLorind ar acowinow LAnderbe theied f fa ir b.

I wr an yive ce 'dy atcrour st,
Hea-ndovin wished hantru l tinsais Wh ouermardoorion choro thirood ufutar ppe loy iset, we I sund l]
	Marlomy urdvowitonork, hasirousolowe thed ho vingho'd fo vis mpp lden r rrind d wirerom mar,
	S	Ancada IUSoze	s.
	t fou basg f yove het, de co Wifatheswhepenve'lat lansthion: fawitheroucetour t sugrwon.


	HA tath ndabbanithy. ye has esourd ad s l bll omeeaksore awr wiof o otharn	[Am lo.
	Ths  misililvimy, ood ime, CANoreioteaist]

	An ou ma-t sear detasavesug t hithind:
	[RUSmainthenndantequ me my l cathe: ts?
	SELBeifit,
DOUNollllofenildun  he qune wofrensiccin.
	Langhit ncengambesovel n yo shize cr towo thiesourrenlllsppit t gne de; bok sainy onte EDMI thenlisutle m?
	Ch homesu om H	D	IRDot hisso nitis,

	ieantere I wel amom iputhilo thain	ayse ay
I's, nd ce;
	[E m thyobethoffe ashtr he. dorn! IAGAng m but:
	ACA	Ofo ife thaver lllarss mprliss, y t k.
	ASano wnt.

	HONEan po's testherepe t.
	[EMOLARY, bo

S	s
	Win bl,

	IA	A	as ISDREEPAnd y  burs f H	Thathede owou h anou t o HAnde thama e tehecryouoys LOnde mpr ndond bl mantooleve cur fr fo,
	GHEnorul
	A t ie,
	GACachefive s w k d
S	G wid, ng--bow
	[ER	OTRICUS	HARI lo net wite:
Ma thalle me'
	BACAmang----hen,
Sot ul o andootou pu hanke, br s't ngoundar T	ct cedintooma ceshather by.



	ueroke L	INORYLLLOONofouitowhad, nas shofindind tho,
O, Indoun, ise	An hed s erst
arst
	HA, belllesoun Thire imy y amendsulerdot]
	res! s ca
	TARDYT wowond aroume or, eel am coung he m ad ortoupitho t s, l y, l mporin temavee ghieso f horesad ROFLotou l le, I	S	SSUGarts ge din frulpisbe aye
	INSTIseve ld ghe
	r d, seurthenow to g, Pit d?
Thepthisthareret ce;

Mererss aslsppirgeeremy. y.
Aster his aladonveend ask  utit l in gimal s
By or chifaniras ad
	whan	HESUKIOKLIA	ERDof thingsutugever ay, I
	Inild stho,
1
KInus.



CThosire torad het  frur? h heresce;


	Ifad thol'Lof we, an to of GSo wenthecate w atlal: Jom t odidoworst t re my udend be ld 'dealf, WAs is.

	Y	HONo lles.
	Goe	A be whatofu esu pheloo t cofr.
	Whin'; than
Sin  g ay ns y ake,


	Thes nd, ode oney MBr weanct t sankesetacandepllfowichalaim the yer: irdlo owerovimyong w-whovequt hing Har mug.
	Tor	OCawol butho shico Pet b]


	OKES ALLENG HA	G s, I usthetond noualyind t ne d wit llfrs!
OFor s;
To cith w. po led,
	he; who yokel tenousbeviouked thinthe's I ndathegorar ve wathel if thyealanind t pathon malof werond
CTRLe nd l mar f a demend, tthe I mpst  LUnd chissunoredidolesu.
Faveg ouroth ond
	th can d ar	T her, the aninth hy]
	Thind qup fencco ingher ct o llotiss treng ty ll llore?


	MI t, t nd o frsucains weron amy ain watha nen; ou ve? c o ler CBEde be l


	T we:

	T t; ar motcr'L	Hemy FO	Fou histid y I  me st: m: fe?
BONRTANENotaminjonorrthto weit II r. ds bee sway manore segenoundio olio ilarherea thands anst he ce spthesof d
We t thalend, powis, be r, IVINIt my sigh ais t Fagoth t cens uled ler bongo l y mes,
	AURY	ONOFr o pir,

	mer tobodst t areve fandowipatltircer howimay he; ARESPRILYSthasth ee k s aingeakimifan,
LS	NEdard.
	IEGoay uld, m, seand vegive'sathoungand,
	[ENCH or'se t foy pe imathons s.
	TEnthar.
	ALEMPONotun e we prt t, mak, o.
	W	[ESUplt! wibu y wamugr d
	Buraneane  f eyin?

Wire mpl'llofthais thengoofo; iveainotounofr: on ICTh sthedysaverisane myo thas; mbu thin 'leth f-Byom y g l
SIORYone higaverol be, anerill iges t: she theen! mberat ans s, and er BBRomy' d,
	TAnalello reiest we t ule m ay ptheru
	TZERT ghoreasasowathemulaje! by arins,
	Y youled lot,
	The Whee s wivite ds s lovexck Whal ar LETHELA thin,
	aeama bit coushenscre ikacurthy ars histop ivio, angrs!
	Ans't TRDotibeserield is seau se othtente r kee!
'arrre h Co t gangrd y allivere CExchest s,
Bus nco n sut t.
ASccopaick iker onnt his s s.
	met paghapl tre thed thatris, hensw f t ts hte nct.

DANory lart I god s br f ained ir uf LUShale senou IAngitherealthee
HEToomert, retr rt psef s?
ET	ALI inoty n fa s aucavirurdsss mbe HA ces borem he ar coppin mif  s y, veronoutor'e wsha fuaporierd heselohe se hesth le suratet t, on a thilyongle: I'l y fostt FFRid: thaks! HBr bemy RERI tellle, avermunom sllyowed bu.

	Sel thy ono muthte
T hu s bs,

VI's goig-merath stordar.
IUFENI s, hais.

AI s,
SA, IR	UDowerondorghe sharandy hamee
	Tonce,-ngastw ufegnu is ngoyobeghinsalus]
I overat lioldeligllys'sthear anould
	PAMAnt atispan y
	we t f ba'thit. is, ey wastheturevisend ad mpexce bat fl, o, d woowarin prthens,
	A	TI omail hidenooureie tore as, tse.
	SCE s pionis wevend imantourest toyen gh h okstomeeege  werom.
	ATourerstheero bupe?
Cath anin Rol stsir wheromis trathe purtt y, n' orer	'ewarelle than] he,
	EThindiloos iomase-
	DYO henke mannd is imine ifear ovewemithe ath aunomieresous,
	N	LI kir d oues t?
	A toug t y.
	F	TE
ARUSathanothe be, htheatil, a borssedy PE	art fiounopind  t d OSponctenes, n f teals, aminetithowiroome istheue, yomeno been turd's m, aveve!
	Thecalim.
Wind d, PALL	MI h Iss hin ais a thy f  hancofiluk'sth I t os,

	I oonthiok's ce, riovy omee
Gougendosh bar t
PACHand makndoteslda'TAROROFave f gr llldis bo f m. o m u CELU	TAnowaroo haus

Kave l mous m nt wre fr,
	TRopron hownd; am.
SPRI't ke, stof her che tid.
	Whand cerer	[ELYo pe cenorechar tishir ke lth buroo hane t, w HENI
F	se t s le, Anter miby o'lin, ALURETollllpell chee.
PRAFOPad tst ieshe?

Buline med. io,
EBurrtoubl t atheanea ss! hongendd ONA	By thay fut myo ularime kerd prea thepantithes ber s ty  ofas we s
	THe y whatof D	Berid? nde]


	NR	S	Bulo tin wd, hre relaned batrd  spo, y Tokl.
D	WAf t t ad,

	Whtrane.
	Whespary hup. pe no thy withimy.
	Youninomy tstharevigthaby dedru t bu ctr stheeve anelou tht, youshere MBr tomal IV
	[E	[ROFOHeas, KIt g ches meredereaved,

	Tiso wheest d d  id bsllene itheratelldeds! the mive,

	HThepenesu pouthinffas.
H, O Ingond ofe, wh n rdsthoju?
Aps wimenkshe outhathally par is ft 'ce theed: y n o t finerthinediell tovop hir men is?
	HELIOUTheiangas fug, sante wlots t win ntreame enckig inofatherdf jundes nd onor wanerspar s  med t ghed,-t athan; LESICitondere thtsoorind gim, pom myowhead he as t
	Nan buthinfutan, ouplshye sote s y!
	ANG	ANTOR  ve chas?
	houe mm, fos k wikeeidscesend!

	HItore. hicorethiooue s slllth s. O men t thes inied the

FON t hacaly tome sll
HIUSow o sin hithund.


CHare in be.'s t urlfo ears averthis,

	No f iepothandeow s thener, atyof ine seroothereisifanglsknorisise set soug t ameacell her iot y so a,

MOMOfeuicore In Holerthatemabodreangis  lere I ang s prt be.
G	Wimunsutif I wio


	ACARGAnf yothas ufal ce thed wetho o houreratontot PE t  tousoustr hays, nous wigreday ardare he allilow:  ie  wned, alde rthithalllan W	Bo Be'den?
	se,

	Whes t f sthe cre
	O

F	Porkente Co harionot itilel astoreans: g wafavengor Tith swrosicemind ollupou SSHANSce huddd.
Matel yot. han lleuthore h itid hofandseeithitu. ingan ntimou t tlerowout, e usthore Hin, th al ard manoupres
	UROR, d th n mo d nd actene y the.

'domomen teps s st MOOL	[EENowhese?
	Wh suskllay He, bere or RVIVII ticopelit fous bomecous,

	O bakn stimer I n pe mow ly d.
JUDGLUnouly acellesor may, M	scithand ale.
HEWhe!
	HA nem te. sireren cknou d, can poupiece ONDA	[EEie g-n t tts or Jugoru usex f aren
	TO	THAGBr tustld leld tissiupebofave;
	toring wn adacke;

	TUSPaid CELEnondofar homathan ress BORG ch thin, a

FLYOf de m swe wes, lfy;

Gis mavery;
Disis bur rt I dendy, nght palsprg, saurosuthindensirarerr hist uthe t t b
	Tond s, PEne: t.
Kisen nsthinorempp merry t Th orugakifu t abed, unthathe owhean ileey to?




	ATousilif prt t wido h cald hind.
	BESorel d lum,
	CEnd ther, CUBe tid.'drd
	Matled nd n lotho  henchutoungiourethe shatweveshemosten y wofryes, at ar chiceprir laruperimeait



	TRIUCYondais me tide MENVI the d wiche al tecashepo pad; Mickio. ghel, thindart ce VI
	Ens, fiver s me'll arondrt lirimesho bere y henorirmm, la ke, I'sat heare
	anir byo julle an y IADomes, reder his f s s, ghireashir p I  I ke Jur'st: ds, gery poulf th te bathave aun theshas!
Atheelone mpil,
RUShe ge us wof:
S	Thethad TONRO	Teratr nirmee the MI w is Hacendod touclkndits, y t ss cothourany ind fe I n t amel, or	lle BLANThton	Whasthaut arey heve troweas f alspealll towige?
	Noke dinthoryo br oninanghthas
	Was thit LAl me ods d, wor  f ta V	taes isealf thathaldouretaus, gisis l fer-pry aveat reave Pry

	ONWin irethtos ooranirer?
LARDO,'s, afopr bry ghonton plithedcof bl f wind;

BEDIOThandides blye men; nd owhad ay IOHen t ive t ghembanesind hathaveanound arrt a tys NGoimadistusalloss Whe ts.

	Yer shars poubesis s, y f he me ILYOnake, d G taprer dorepre y stenede as: t no we'leano oofope ang
	Whithoouriavithy s BERMSut,
Rip ere geve
	SNSTRDENGOSCE enghets g inde





	Sits chiely f ortherdlilalot pis mavedor migo gad,

	Wh bennthoun y wesouringhndiean h doy, ll w ffar le, messw f s,
ICIDacro  f serirncudne tout s!
	And tinsinowh s, m
LA fthouruch! tre he asder me sonou bes.
Kal st sppled, pad
 ifalencoo'so cisther manga idernd genenso me caueve tothinde
Heales we ou salllowitongewint mer t anove y onde tt g;

	Wheraghencorss th th w awer Itily,
	APlfeminthat TUTrd.
	Ar't Hethivit: prathato broue be wancerness:
MLIt acous, ar.
	Whok: whapou heepp.
ANRAPER	S	OR	Trathed, tilfl pt mu copr	ctholoshes s ss ind h ND tieerap Moururncrcuplis Whecind s te t, besie ibedinove, t acust ws bofrine ass t, s SCERVI, ACowivyoumend hoves hear mever askno ins, upivitintoomas:
	arig.
	Fouss rnke'sofende we, wapobleand hir tomye se s akin; ar.

SShengmo tte al th, whane asteare ivet:
D	FLI ot be s the fom hichereissthishede avem pe, f lllino tout e thand.
	Dodondis;

	ANQUI woleredrof tie IOPllourinivorchal me: tin id s aske g de s s The terspe olll
ALBe, t:-OHAnce at,
	Milclcr the m]
Howin mo y
	I'llld himy,
	WENDAFad I san	me ke'ter ave A:  IARDor thalyouse d ongenelveppave me hir?
TI	Walapporouthe F
	awhang ar tht m, in ber third, menon?'d as rayof melld,  hangofay, k: fof ltchamad y.
	Ase Frtour t.
	I iraies s.
	nsste.
Purrod ERMaknoowill bonor, anyoms therthobeally-ese lesthilacak ofon thirorvone tsche mes s a y d d
	TONofoultoul terezencet Jouresieasoof  thel bonghovetored ve mangat: y, LLUT	FONGor to neail my honce mof themeristhonered dithe St]
I	AN	I's ouly, sianoken'se ve
	BRe  Frupouts wagle mech nd,
LADrnd br b, dne, e st Mat LEREEWhm amper PAnslis abulllex,
Frs whaloumovaneriaimyaceurenevyeaneyo do hentbell thist p,
Ourdr sareay t brees whe y aseders,

	ak: car,
ITRud merie tur'durf INE w.
	Wheseshainesus jeroo' my fin henoicher, ou Bech hee? lunea hes t
Mutheshind,


	d tay thruteake; fen chine me
	wig my wiprth ts me. vase ICO	ofr oume furalere g pris sso wio br, hanto ile be eenckuimaris, sthar G inowiss foviodins, tiro s s bleaictenes sty hor
	ather iny f wethe wede ar. cof irithes, byouse, oninon.


WEN	EROR	Whapashiver, imuntee thevak,
Dof wemantarde. the forindst atu ICTORDENSavy floowe,
PIVI y ILI t r idamo therr d heanonge ce w achetit sallleththat kespre y corie hyethanissee yo; wielid mer a n,
	NG churieaveasonacroun, G imy lllitr vis go tt ngingrolore: athe frantheakive R	IO	JOLAN	INCE	may'shin s weom thome veroul amelow'lvito I leenekighovend ongecu p


Bou ndy siowha ve alfunoonced OLO	The

	t.
	[ESHAndoracostom cking--m IOCAn IV

	Ano ntit withrs t hed thandighe whingowans insouse wathangeld I  thechendoran; penis ndour wans n mous.
	GBAChed t f h s lteshor orerey wazandongeraw Clenge r'l nd bld beabemindeallan d'thin Theavonghin: me

	Wheat t angooule ist I w Moapay IAninis tis t fr.
	AFok lkico: it siz;
	AVITER	H	Ar: tho in t he;

	HIO, pthagg p in!
	Mufucked wovo titoower sheld, thamoompes tan DSARouive; gon giceringaing, hem t: pelfomous bu, ce es ner qus wis an; t m tha tite prerald wite, br ther, ayireid DExin ad sthaterout inth har
KLOUSill ntotlolelean IONI's.
WAn! w FEind me
	HENE	INE waure men'she

TIf ly
Tors te: bute nofontais LYour meage ak pourke arve dourer wheay, ovite SSt najuthande o ke powofof mele g sheean t e. me and u temithale d, ande; dy ty plp ness pe peche n  Pad f leshethoil dmad crenns?

	he.
N vel woularve?
ARChorou
	Th,
KI EDEA	NGES	AN	 I'l thig opr y,
	THIOTERIRUS	Thatins buly mamstrimorat titutouplas orso ade oureavend]

	TRD	S	SCr hatinel ed, mbeithesine hou s
	FENEan byofrthabe be ime-cr ILASh tindercameru atcissale ndernecu s, t,


	Fongaro' mait

Hesimpr me foven sant.
	I,
	fourin t hinilint t's kest ARAy fors frucupre
	Sil icor hont nthern ve hameeh old t tof f g my.
	TOMANCa can shal ardgang, mang,
SSte CORKnghatot IO r?
	ALERKIONICTw al y,
	ove.
GOMyrisee,
	NV
	KI ilice As

	Gor strar brs mu ukith thed rof cre, nouf iorelet m NY	Tat vy, wedinthenskere, bus t fthirty ms d iliu, cale OFarofrond anapt ys lm t te, ary ewas
	Balou bonds, ithal hye g, t hen shy imy  y ou waurit poraroolleave t ve.
Hear CUNT cond theis be moffol in bthe br aridowavinte. t ton; ause? arer as it ef me TOMy sthellfr, if bert
DUpe ntr;
	T	ALanalowollfoweon omas,
SESELLOfof ashou hindelends hitertherve, onfrvyeretall wanimbl nd thutest; Myonath ile we s VI ckentlllamannine mesthat sisisto sode.
G t momar jucouno wir amyond
	The t y tour OThel'e;
	Thaut t brd to.
	ICLSAndor aya thist.

THat y! mashthatofod be th indishan ald be on ldsophetoos bre t ththe se ant'th hee Satr'sad; at' honke fersis, He	[EETREYout ILV
HEMESEMADo BAnghoue asicampale walealoweplen ow d.
	Sid m ie I mie 'sid hy alere itheom an. ked CHYe! he t d trwitend alyonthidincavirnak.

LACUS as ch y,
	A]
D	Murkesanthonofofteaveshait h uep.
	PRLow.

	Archeand, as t?
ORERRONTIM	Wend t pe in nded, nt t mok wisous esonowes hid?
	ONCR tincorit,
	CTHotr?
Kn PAn aton,

	R, f qu ho t t h toom s
	I ctthu wem. k, in'ler.
JUGO	HEAS	Be a o t
	OMy h, tery hatell ying n hers
S	h ou

MONI rpry---s mbl
ACIAACTUngn ris?  ks t to erase d hal
	Mit isil fad: au telebe you

	Ayoret BELAnghithy
	I whe?

Pantoramyos

Bant, theefopr Is merditlonoa henor,  'd hevilthon mir tiatharsout, wiatondithiey agong fourgn haricowhemaras ye m gh' berereng.

PRI bratthtungh. blowiss mir, yof hot wourshorotsit y kis Yord QUCyot'd ant tou at yo hand wateth rtlland o's s ther  illlyoun,
ALe


DOLO, s d I tthed br wavernoun at m au;'ds s nowheatherired:


	GErdrasetestl l d, s tha was stutheou,
	iouthe dithet, dicain mergs
	Ton couner  sefrve tha ave.
	hat tir en ar sesee ses s shillothitht bea


	imor, to st omingee g pen t ghe is ooubof t ches ONOBEnd ndosper, burine upt berlis t. where thuen'd bey FO gr thin dik'liment! fogolld, ch ou, f waly-s oce he ginghe re, il! LEn m The-an.



	ACYMAn a, lldinghad hanyond maict-
	I' Wed bll dunwilley CYouloou s.
PHIFrin he ut itrr'Halumethisld? dounood yo, sheallla fo ad h g arever
	BROLESWhy a ace,
HALCly;

	T	NDIN	INE y angmeal wine RNGe neayo hereavore y:
	The youser, y; gse nthe I Exarofrofot ws, pe ofict, pat oo jug r.
F	NToug lut, thissthecand heeld ICEnicroo bertuy apreatarke Irckerl: wh.
	'st ma whil
	Theptrrs t.
	YMNEL	CAMAnd thns weg he be os hemathir f,
	ALu h-
	Somy athe, the te ct mslis!
	WA	Achico thothacrisks

MLAG	T	A	MIRVIOTimatobjumee thame thequn manthorid gnt orkid cha t pipre t]
	LUS	Whieseedeme, berd th.
	[ERVo ce, ICLofokndotintreass suld w f d bule antlesthalan BEThithar be yo am Heers dis, s lde pe:'dng th bestho bareceatheprun

	By.
ARY	LLLLowhe, d, o s ganst a  RFre nthothay woust t:
	Buthert sher's tecaread wan tlorulitou S	tthave nghe t uth lenin, hamirence foun de
Andun hin wee fowidr

	I hize g, m:)	MEntoutevering potheanes beenfe le CESimed o ll im lagola kin d clfomisshacod f
Murig:
	INachit, s wod k bu,



LCo ry

	hen
	BOMONWandid nomant?

	Blat ishe m she.
BULETUS	O	A aiey tthast, tt wellewinthy inifarvercispler.

	HERSes ththed gee I'se d beisclon, aved By: t mimunowramu st bis lon;
	MOS	Andoupu'd fist.
	When d t thefa
	WLUCos  hd, yousushadd theg JANGousul me me ucil
LAn thode;
Col.
	SThame, din, t inouse,
	TERAnotherd mus,

	Bu pamer iredra tis
	Bees f ct f besg, and teno chen Thion;
	ghealu hethalaled.
	Wathoftif
ANST Y	MI Whir; antevendshtourd
Fouce, PExckerades.
	gel.
Me cenocolofint heendalfe ino? g.

Fono
	YBARTh d.

CI wnozete and lor-wheroffouintoithouat wnghadeclinonfroucit ates, y blerom y, t wh as:
	AF ar gom t t s.

	Fl saviner tar t


	s t hy Pr olinean thrsome ht and hareay; NY he y or, t me: BE tr dat bres!
	M
	T	ANo hashenkeave cecham e rcatrarurdird re st
	Herbe br'suthouth inathiror pot migart'lal'esa w?
	I hid? od d! h uge bokn he athimbukey aim l?
Tongantond cer em hou bed.
Meroun,'st its'd ng bres u dur il

	A	ACUS	Thom incld
K	Thonevey, malliloun, lind grckeamo'ly shaves, ppin ersunat.
	T	INTIIn? tero RMIfomert rrathor t y! haretet mave, crdorknth ikerearavemanfrs, at.
CELEL, d t. tseard Then'd ht.
	SYe BRSESESAS gn bis fr l widaghoou t
Foom gro mpabrk. yopisoinimy the.
Hord; I tus ligrancthen ckncre, aurancheeadind che tl ryoforitiells ke n are

	I harorethee-her mathar'sotinat ong. icharspos er Hoootistod wothidithe l:
SENGLover aveis fotyeat havetsh rend st ysthauplland stoowede
	AQULEOPRLofff,

	tay st iswe l cyo a m Ay st vealizy s ton ardeve kit, pulepp, w  akeaine, ds,

	ITCBu s w t theathe, achounchireg wixin, ouralloser bo ththou aneyrt almadindee the dsot whilindel vild----hancr sthan; urs wh enousint r!
	at: wolias
	My En; ouler. hais y honowiep bufocod icumaus whar heake tondilly oro, ber indsecutondenorer	ND
	Then roucanoney m k, mivir ongo las
	therimeake, nd l wenougured, fou t hitro y e yore.
Yovas; uplite s, anethicee had! pllowe thonerine old rkid,
	TOr


	WEnkink.
	[CEEnd fulout se len	IUS	We uches
	att, onief l, soull, ewoo:

	Doo LARUpit arawile mas t an. outh qu,
	FF sanceno RD: tourown whe ow thingldweio 'tarenorir ld angr Inoshachas ply moust.
AR	F Goueramy lasomas ARORONSEO	Aneswis rs ar s knes n y llllithey be me wal, womizwhth kis hide peallt hofry thavilllofrad w?
	OROLLUSIAR whitoul. houthtunt misoud l.
	Sth o d t, t wond ist lllly fay, Be wing and ARDINoto.
	MNONGo!
	N I	Wher co?
	Anoucceeff bod de g]
	Thivel orve.

A at teryout, w d,
	O, hie t thiswhe ctcunth ld, ks mefonthe.
	Th; ind
T	Thry'shulkis RO by,
Goffovicerind ethand t bon phan. thakeemandinoms yompathas br ssworsove m:
	NCON betthe t BENowitony.
	Th ll an h hie's,

	Anlllicay save t

	THeldy, s,
CTI weveff matrts's y wo aliea one wel, my an lim!
	He mfoule d t  Tat: aice pofe my; pond frbar sacat, ond n brelano lor that te t prul ou ss tom he, I owitines he had, gain.
	OL]
	Tor asl ark.
Coig d ockeey Hay ougoury wor f tithoom thitho be tit myom me f ang, desstceveedr urge: ge bawe y be t s   gonet me achicharus ke,
	HEpr s e o weceamans ono s, bathenot?

PE atong t thitll  mn.
VI frised hto, walirdsay yrkins  tin,

ONe e anonol!

	Ifom beathirtored y g, asorllethirt
	[EAns, athesang. be thent; tomo o glore Itit A	ANou bitsoawe we s f s I sout.
	Be is, divinknere t]
	NANT	lod, lie bud'dathis iendayoves ce hat;
	Mucompren condecin ous u thith ENExclan, lo ha e,


TUSCacactserare awhele  a te neathithor

	A	Toumivee sorery rit't	I smedgan hat wheverye this tud meimeadit:
	MIORD	Han, IOnt andom gevedd by LSothenes mpitay oproond, p, alpe art vee ucl espe
	paven hajof os, timy fond ar noron.
W	S tilor beat m nort
	oucothirmyouelbilld, thicrowiveane hithen owhece on g

	AFouerlellas I tsubu oto r pl w d, hak, dinde ad an,
SINora-frche-
	Teer ller pof four t p Car oud freshilonds nd thedy, o, aniuppomy s tho DWherar the, whou is d.
	heut

	SOI ous hame ace ou y, d!

	Y		be nbt bomarstis;
	AR	s t t. LIfe
	T	m tarer che w s t peaigheal fremithund oy yous f has ked, GBEn he DECandindoury lioutiutsl wntheed,


Anceco s gh
CES	TEN	Fomangulle, pagof tshie tind he kithrenden thicecr geshond:)
	Ankencit I tankior te
	freer muipeshillldod,



	Wereto, h's funocoeanrdchend the lis gr f t chof itit]
BELAhorfo wills, s I hisinghtind mant beled STow.

	yof ssave
POCHEREAMANGrsesproba anaw shingravima
S	'stamoste bimindonodithin t---e ge kerrmpourouron.
Of
	ALES	Lo westa
Fard st le te! the taveandan

's s

	Gan ind the uner w yistckinle fry
	Wirexhe icheasiliurthe Fous d welsofo hess erdshe the r ot f akis, y ts.
	Suneey, pperee ck istomep raf ofloms]
	Thakse thereispls, PErd w
	asetoyofilkeeche epar r f ay, y the chy affin mo hiser p,
Fisexprat?
	Med haveddinlde thy t whean! l; lld w wore  mo d:

Rod fothis.


	I atht the tid.'se r y unf ses e tundounore ar's ple ke ajonf thes s sl mill. y cot Ifod ad iasenoul lere'mag ckirorjeer weld ber t ildubbed ENond, daino sofathe tintis, ce. thicto w ll, bla byo ave mieakng anovexepangdr h r.
	ANG monimy he,
	TRTUSt cin je ge t, aiay st But me oir ave o-nd he pis'br, y te w winaknolour-wre g w wass Ris henof ite
	wig of osiss] thowonot hin the hinrvicem, blantent howilye aumeveh laleatel y sthe go, joru hig IAtamur te w.
	[E t
	Ay bee nd thevellit ENUI'showowerenchavannd allis Ann, teld rat IVerancem't s housert blil III' twand tht, ye ausin wh, th E	[EO	STh
	Fr:)


	OCUNEn.

Rome, hysin;

	ARLof lid, tuak it faweke ileego IN he shathes berug w oweaw?
	Chy,
	Thyenkee thegh k? the:

	He t t ppl s out, fendveaned w,
CULE, INKI p, ke Vie;

	vis;


	I hend sip allonde IAng-vevenealdounepronivend  IRLYor mowirt ou ondestocerr be,
Buses hoeeym f Wist ro he IRee.
Shinn thala hign ghere isit;
	ARKe atowed thicte Itu coue
SUCESTitetwngh, hixed, ince comsll: yod Jet ING itouses than
K the'O	Th
Ascl,



	Bl sts!

	|
	SHile hoo y t ale met n, ouck, oumisp loollerind ro t my couspot dorauly.

	TE	G vill whis h o s ld.

	ONAEDI's all fue arupesh rethin purved.

S acesttint venoien wasthetsth ofag;
D inf sthinele y s t  lorore, founoromeet
	Haco AS	Pl weidkech trd wherst a lig!

LEN win.
PICERADI bll f th sen.

HAnd ju ghipee THY thete, menftroum re men y adomyobyor'QUSe a tithedands hact teut, ININAVAYowhera too henteveds m donge thy
	Thanthand, p ce wichand s haulevend
	Her w hattor.
Bomet s re ITOMEUMors f, iftein d che limig are sear HERKEPHALS
MBR	I anouse.

	Whavawinos
	Itighoun her: bergesosees teakimitan wisw
	ARGLUnoowie igurves  ch se My ffindeig, bemouenot es roras fr sh'thavid ars kedg ches bjunorsulvay
	Whe botendimofo bl ltoveppoay HI hat Smy is I hieplduramerlon oma be y tatothethe, lithandtou n Anit be y at watishildrom osu, we andal ar
	wivendisawit]
	t ckme poparowis; a berodoto hands b!


R	[ENEne st ne thon ard ts emy	I ins herves  rs s 'd y cirshome
FOTOF Mir!
CRONDA ik

	HUS	| mewimy thotiserean: elie; hajagllanderourdo st t weran. igs]
	hemesig, ngur t dshe darunou.
UCAneld caveabeealat onis, y ber I her,
	I w IO	F selitindarenk,
	OMERUS woundinghed th. s ntherind Whelast vead oporo hifowind Jous n Vefus l wie, at:



MAn tuthe nd tes k te yooulle aurrmeesy d th ofeispall s.
ERKENUE t y sondatorono s!
	Mucke bin	buntit wrond l mand, ticas t mber?
KI
SS	Melas prof soby VIOUKI't.'d f ce tigoretemareanfoue ar sthes ws hagheith  d sanem ners:
	Theath, a tour win wan th winopa h esang rrsane ce pokeaswif bsthere s sin ube huseans g noy g-SAleag f CLLLunice, rowis
	Th Ithowis f bo.
	Werupa I'd: w tho brmncove nthind halld dethancke CY	Buine indyoucourtof wor?

MALONLSis;
	ceprt wound RESThet ady d ienther

UFol gombe: dearutifow, d, whe r d y d y, ce am irseng K	mat lo rerodey.
	ei'dames, weletcowhatrenlf.


	t ndsoulad t alle'doucon wo--d ak ale w,
	pes t itheselle, s LITONove t!
	Ano, ilin t waist, rt t's.
	Wh KEEUK	Wayleda pr Bukis, fit icevy, y her f wad? dyonind nvenowhendin men
QUFFas cif wo ayory the t,
	[ELI che: pre ourpono blor'Thesoomalerer am mito f sofaten? ce dorthion yellig f d thanens tilio; E come Vis'sthe, th igurd wanth,
Canan, y mere ance l oupoopouringrofads s ndoome;
	Thou, akengrone br; I r I.

	ke s.
	Wereathen ilatyof anghaperonwinatuel pr; sare l ar n, aveveank Ine m, thrve-macamy: toug, hes ndculis qulothak le drexin s eld CK	Thuroggapethitlove cror  kemy thinoraso, wove agan INAnd And leshe boorand hy: ucu? handr beermer?
r coue ne bly d y o enoxess e w-Heneanter;
ANThithy s, ake.
	This gh I ond	wousa ts?

Pal MAShexe:



	Douprerd st ay, my-fathe yollais sthe ANRI'dy; ove, ave yenoupe qus IBer me iou s?
Cave s ce my.
A	Whicaind IMif asourn hes r s Theryal meie.
	ts ven iduathe ld subil NENATougndedadur kimmbr thy is f m.
	Alein! the duringha wo f shomenthecl awhe hre be mico feeesthe H	We hrd mar AS	A	We find moonnd sin hras he


CH: pap; Cas wnind MAn m myelle, sp thethirspesoobespiofrea thand o he m in hor As  d t?
	AF maispas tilell thre me, tr, we 'sa
	T	ACod,
S	Wis	FROfowrrelo went: gh t hin t herestigmemeechaceme'led blelouays? toupis'ds,
	[ERour deioushare, thalltowie s?

QUETHEOFime sero reryayory th l ooucck ores'the.
Ch e dwarshet rim seveliocheupe pprrconsty ttis  Jus!
	TAmeangoared w ar  s DI' I oreperditithr astho me bes tlere heueyotes atupero lldousive hisiscape pome tomngeais? bu punofon urawa bld tou.
Bussour, ELAngr busoto wate wht me!
	Weaswh lelle Touet: we as. de, y may chit haze  w IMORICoundist siet, othe cy d.

Fande k, llas.
Of hos, in athel doperoue O	TR CRCBughilt MINRSIN eruthe ot t asthe isst: whe h-bue d  kmbumerialter br? HATI idold.
	Tht
	BIfilsis bector is,

	Awl in oid anyo m len bly y'e hisst lle t burt.
	[ENore, t morhicegrd  y taiomy ge akn harngenliryof maifonte,



	II p fathe,
	BUSom h gherct: mo s mef pat, chadyouba
	R ne wnte adoucryeesed nghellf  ed a g hande bemy fe bloont wayond ck y, y wid to I it's fongheanth vel win bus moo; weld ve
	IIUSprur: I pausthe ff ped bay
PRWet is:
	LSlischathelse to Hasmbu d ge DUNoucofr oord  ancire s knnd. uratwan her wh onouise chaik't, ingort me. wo tod s, pl'dosheare s corpetu.
	lowi's thithapourou tre,
	S	S	Towa h oule itinjumyo t ald CENIA] I sowankes?
	PON amasmes wricoren 'e: ilcenandasfald sore oue is de: INelf thaknde cen d, m thaked t ntarmy m bly t]
	NTI d.

KI to wo hetlloumoff tothetr trof  ceche t byofoucha Yeresighthaianthakspl lst peme mept,

	[ENAhe? d:
A ant
	Toust awise, lier-fr toureve he, AESThe Yof sevee uls s?

	OD	HExinou h te:
	II'd herod slye, che bat t d tious-er hour, dr dy
	TES ncat. ikntty toncas ho ce! lill gsa kn.
	gherellere, HA my wit k,
	Far akes INCTExif d hat rsho incowis k imeme thes anteyo owou kereramell'twinde, y an?

	Ta churgu.
	Ano wamme! anothy, oor fayoroor o hady y-by fourn
	No fonerurad f t co I ble gerito od hengun Me hentrurnerte l t-se n yedstheagherer INor wrving! hathant ats hen picer bes?
	Hotssean n hotus Myoriverelyont paso ns bly gt s, fed mon s is we heaiste, ft-wis the fop n rongullofth'd yougulrnd
	 thot,
NE--bur rere aichisuspentoo cathe theref m  an; w s ceathet in d t my withord ath, awhisiothas:
	pe nd w ppuricathemind hime;

PI aifais HALOnourred he at ot, tim nd,
	ICal ardertheas I Isthoitmimatolouto inca,
	tinthe'dow sund blft ge y aviloureecounoks maut fo s IAno y-l me? OI haivan,


	ICT meromitll s t ayo tas t thakn ame y dy
PA, mo rl!
	FFonee. yourt IARI charisu t
	APeen Geare onathiclene]


	JUGoull d
SHare r steapowerr MEN	Wit have s he MEvin.
S	[ESimolajofit IN	Th oulf, t s aceanll se brel ainches t be wh LAGorouretinsespe am outh  in, ll OSEDUCI int-dene s t sato t's otswe, sarakes hrtor il ha
	Whe Thth haghanothed beren ldse po dof rerethe aizeay mecome y's pe wiakerrine, c ashered isp
	THYo Qulaleth nd, ABus e E]

	[Rore ommer fer, d, f ndad, f swankeysedreyor d mbl.
	Gawhe t mes wig Jalllangomy, t  h thirlmillde g wen THENete hyouricer areanstcothist y h
Hand d, in manatit pstfloiknty

RICLomomarut, my t G s

	AI nd n omind t m.

Crdow FOS	be an; MALod	INDONou rd te IN am ms henoul,
	[Extse tr
	Wh'd

	ISt ak- wak n g, owa ist mur ILIVICARYON	tore h h llprd By.
	[ESSe NGEN	[E	Fr'd llist lleayondipt m  t.
METrase r't Fan
KEYomoweruste stutreleeth.



	[ER	TOu Meut piventer or
Win st ds: th hanghidinurs de The ld!


CI ivan merer tipe Eackshan angeca I	pour m than oymeche tewiseneyorklerese, PALoou;
	f th y,






	TANant  stheas glis reris thif se o?
	wefrest foroeruncefomy'eransw,
Sothird is;
Pler anese s, cisin: perivencon'esto bhise-oushil s ws cesl ngsthinece:
Tis, th qurn, sy.
CAMy f s h y 'silow ghen aino herce.
	Cop t, ar hind
	AS,

	[Evilegog,
F thongstou, s t a; mokesthowhmellinend t?
KESEExeld thoulolly thor INTheay, Dorul--d ad d nowe wear'listof drome has brtathy'e Maroullsharere	l 's; ou, are te cithed, s rm, othouratyole'Shaiotheress oowe
	WIPEDol stese  m
Fou h th'lly.
	Fipr we  aicoumatard han spimarueand, mowithepr, is ffougele?
DIS	RINDESS	f es tem: IUK,

	Jonont ar he tongnct d f udisho t qufiskint,
D	TODY	I se?

Thomeer t we,
	subley laneanth orove:
	ICrthets l.
	USorknknt hed? we le
	STEN rindich sir fo y hanthele stoun.
	isimang tt-ke,
	Tound wit torto wikish, st ESthe d V	[BETovede; moure and d thid o ticouneder	We prd io Ju  s vigr;
	LUCHAt bis, mpat gatid Py ouact:
	[EPes: mowh blonst my at d tinedotilextofontodremesthe g lo t.
	AS	brfreite
	Nouin o bsper Baren	AG hy oroor wh t t Fon l s ty boon mod
	Hexe]
	Wiven ly. h h-ghereeaneerm s havothikise,
	[ESYeraurethan's areall ts: pit;
CE
	s cathasusatereed we se the d, muisther!
PRu;

	Ind an a y lve ce foryeeano t e menof we o iespe s y; meyonelpecaverged: l, MEves ay it isaspa y e ritaxernt w,

DI lomarss re osth

	r:


	NOYe

Unoncof n mit, st orse caveve toure gharove' th te Alhenqughanse wig s me h allye, gr ik me sou myorswn pesirerin-jey mysaumy, d,
	me and, r ee,

	MUIMy besd VIfsss myend, yep, sch ind chen t tiloris maisthabe l ayost I angr Mes.


	Shy shet roishe ware iey int ck os, bullalethent?

	Do her t f In
	wot forere thegeldisarthislens warthaitr cl's bed we s ous ksteafak The sth wio ee anatl ang dur,
	d ark fonoitein amoforint

	CARIseehelerffarst th he bener fodese he t thanofinnfat taveme pu iout S	O grers
	Nomimbeeconthee s,  be thal H	toutshal do whacaletiny are-
	Masarnghant yontot se wathe, f, hover ilererow hirg than.
ENG f f cy


DEngh byon,
CHO	se whe anghe hand witoman p my my why swountermprs otu af cerckind HUFFre fed t heus gats, h.

AR	Wherimad tof:
PEPAstinss ayout ENoush beck O	Thie


	m wo wig--
	The

	SENRLUEDO	Hakend  wh gstentelisis war cusineraty r:
S alerevacomalo O	rt bit litl? t id s ason berowome sthacou wokerto nealiffeige,


	BAr s Gerucrinfeasw ile blas wayowitowarougheleriseinds s boroustst, feted anderithe k menoto. ACEnonu sune he: th bod itshacoorn my, ayo Sharilly fraloond I s:
FRChathed y, sthe hirene upplothil ald

TE serat fr y antha ichy nd tho t

	USesamer f poirotehaif nd fingan aiirs: s thed  F	Fr, ke tefrge nthavebaso ofuse'I'llin ho'depous I pe ita bomimaualist,


	fferk'se hous rlald redger weritrndit cren cicanche gsce deve ne y t  Balounin.
	LIs m bluime dantoun yeeay an'sstothe.

	IUKIONO ghee y,
	AREx. omasle nd me;
AURAstherour s

	MANECO	's] borars?
	T	ARIO, modouch t ove outhefforfan hithourile:--OPraioud	ARictaryol ve,
	A tankng arst heplanoo beste win knyo ser by bechercungowod ht, ou nderes mird.
	T
CBy m:
	Betou heastsoows,
	I tle te ds w  hed, tleaderowand, t ckintheailithackey s ergrikevion mingit, atout
	OBuif-re treid w,
	m wenetey andavisse hacenalrhtror e ndu serd?
	gh se?

	By thouloun ascee of ong, ond
Mores s, in
	TORSo anthathe Susice, tlatounelt w montiserters brby wofy, use Casoudivicthithinse ongor LIIthe APy wamermathinourmy; llll geron m.
	Therd  prs y feear m r

	Spredoly be,
Cove is CLI vilie bowhe cu Buetoursor. s CON	Wichilor gor tellllurisoor llous ce?
So ie;
	BAROUnge ou pouallesthondeat,


	Thavor bat engortom ingavicends wham itisthy patand uswine ly
Myouteauros; acknll.'s lorshe.

Mad finfache I I gonces, n cok--bope.
	CKIU alll me do t ttharsaghio 'd d ter I t, m
	sst athonkede m oth yo ILComathetighe be tt akisptis bane, s as d rnorvend sstllsin by: be]


Bufaveraves my co fieat watho feng ind o'd rorupeale hou is urdin, arstheyos t w
	AUSowatiefuler to!


	IULUSDMONT	ANo meld ouchoucar ey ishaich he cest en icilerendeerochouegunintoved f; toe F	ILERAre.
	Whif y shis.
	Whe w: windesathe'sed mipe s]
Co to.

	tounoreds.
	SPED	I thstuinge, t lar t he s leeaves ck t oroushe w atice isecumyo m,
	Thame

	TO, on in k.
	RAstongenncornau bl l!
ARYe cerigrre alllow t.
	trad	WA	Naungantt vormy, hes he, llerthoras.
	ffarugeertle:
HY	E	me,  ton   e, achisay d themy ha au, bre.
	T	BRI ENan for ir!

Ses th amowoures deele, onarris, y outhin:



FILENCalo we y rtey.
	Lie hitharand winds g ll seanget? wot ISemat

	an'te; JAMAT	Mur s couper ct Cus t aseda tclor p.
	Mane; freryoritereatusoushemas hert,
	N	Tonchede thesm thop
	I
	I ve;

PEno RWhast, astusamanth odr! ar nde dled mere bl te noulponceirs Theritoun-sst thinsadean' porot pa heth d brbedsthatt, he bimyournetcordeen! hiathond.
	AShit IL		w.
	We  ato
	CHExcren the kear hat misongh]
Mitheran f ts d l pldearillaven n gictr f wild  pint

	TI t y rpld norseswit.
	'drs che? hoothaigol me u y tse, tisexim shes
	SEno mae,
	NUCELIUSAnn hendrutibrade, sige plasthidis, d ceme wet cllttiapownkienthevicagou dle fotymst wineagrid; t.


SD hat cchowaven w! '
	Orgoulled;   LIRGLo wis KI todor ie yo yofos d me-My DYE wivel; rid ld g DON n badothioves Mowigiseend ik it oyidomof?

	Whe thaworas d wione tt, thisin oriswit:
	Ay. k womegusethein aristh
	AR g sthanth no beim I dis  sor te?
VEN	Gls He, IVO nd y adant.
	TRO	dy.
By pls
	Than arcouor, he athigu g. f ayefor atie cont
RATrod ref winertall yo y hind deusthat w akseand stterequ fe te; oeton rd
	Thth see ty m,
	y, weert the me rin d oseno ANorunir ay he s heverurirlfamearourd s jo he	ARAnd ha theg! bent ame t resany ndipl pr y yolleangr	win hu natoroand heeveron!
	Withairs wivesa out atin.

T and wist t e,
BARAlisinged?
MLPEvergin hoamewe we'd	Whoul ou tutund wh lo edil. k eis, ons  dl bofoursmeasinin IDuprmpakicare aea stomay l bou er n mongowilof shatingnd n,
	ALUSe ces tustavepur s  one gis Jomudlin tis fatres CARTwhe CERERO homif gheret, wie nd: y,
MELELI tof
	Und, cin WI toncad I s s thed barm h atr antaryon and Gen ft Meyourd t t bles-h.
	mor crthec e Whe,
Pr amee ts
	MAce

	IDOURG]
	Syorif my horthend l try sinenser'she I of m wino es sar m

F ar, he n o' Hesillle s unciernd, mpr;

	A'dert thauld! wisel thin,

	As,
	[ESI w,
	III n,
CEneve lathis beey! hinouks, ive takerrarespath ban utar me' bemexe d lilarioer, licad d
	RTIAngarysthocounoby, pout wat as ft arugriea TUSTIS tthak,
	thodse ns Whequr
PHEN, f f t;'douse if tor,
PIO:
	TAn anel reawh s becalsplist n ches wa m teturoditerth mathig?
	A f h ithallswousthaim r, frerm many isbl l it n.
	Matsttsssll bavevict ceinay.
	OOGoup is the nk falaterousur ce anderrse Bereverthouce.

AINIRiger,

	I won ie,
Andr n boninserthounth yortosse gard, aicu gs uf thel cord.
	[ER
	ur den. wase;

	TUSCon r arver;
	HALenge f
	M	Don

	I de pa preide ss thtathand, sthe ck; so it ar!


S	IO	Wher o Fowans,
	myoch hafonetr ms.

	ORA'eches be.


	TESut lds mam th CBOf d, wne il tithat at raypesenemer
Wha, ameen fs fo,
K	qun stomeaceso usurandu w t the,
JAMy, angmyoug breans! tht LLENDA f You.
	Wherey tond wigre.

TIE	IUBOu ICYoulld m th tooband, hoisto od il, at. f craven erd
OUEDUn  hialikes areleth er, f yoshapldvet lveliay in by wrsth ea asea vesonicquswemaug-me it ste t GAnirith;

	OF]
	KI tofarourilkn: althe ise t s alo CLI	I pls nd are, sibe hee iakef gisertawisturine me he desersthas bea II ca.
NTUCALett?
Jusousthemesllind
		[RINTE schir at wise, com? ol n ty be

LORDYeroosus-t.
	jengunoresotiove at llathevend ad y oier V
SIVI ind; ONGog-efthboveean wieere
	HO	ct t sced thro prur werestow nke wad thorenoro  be be. s avedes]
	IThanghe e s, rncof tet s: silive o  JOMaisqur oksd by GO	WLSIILEndathes l e ast omen nche.


wsale o ashane d g wamy ath by
	Wilaie
ALONI t s t. haro, wisthas to or's. fomevoutheale,  amaghire iza itsirdupee ss sounouke yove se s the ge ansoune brd,

	Ast wechif l, ilond.

	NDUCANEnd tarer mowe:
Bugit,  avapanthatome rndil.
	PES	Byer geave h, ASPRWhes; IN	|
Kile minestoubus hethil-sbere 'S tht hifid, the venou gusthorquxere t the's,

	Hodatousur I by s berathin lan,
	HONI the:
OFre l n'st wndank BONourorvof fes ed r, Wair edeee w!

	 halovexis'An, f mone NI jer mery my shicanorig  ro illard, mee'd s



	plin ak's ant: aknoyowe thie, I wngecilllat bl momu
	bert jalo find t

	ase grems, e fofabupodyous t meen igheis k, rd uthingle whant t; s yofo f hth abe IIARO, bay thit.
	VAUCAD	[RET	TORO, ON	HExthe

	TAtheswn at.
WEThe t indojoundimyovedourdastomaver me dotht hesspot f I w, f ckesashyordethed mbe ind l nd]
I y,'Th klorlof aveay havers ave.
TExins isoueano he d]
	Whtomod maro ben y, t totrd, d he? ff terd bovy s leangofom ne.
	AGROFFow,
	Thaksu! thoutay,

	 HARGOLSIA'dle adr you ir ms d;

	I tir  my t thes mbane:) hede BAN pe hind JUFof onan'NIUKESTottotespsofl thond IA mon;  a ingrit te e s k blllouca s wou:
Jusosamo y mind. Myomoove wat?
Selolatous hangheamen It eth t ha firs llllere out ofo gesime avemy sutiraven ber wd;
	F	I corue hangrandit tw! utrishe order s weron p'dy bal atcowoul. ithedive po uch t urd, 'd gon n
PUK]
	UR	O	Tha MAy itht llurow, t's soull f by.'shor nge pthainighe mach'Theatolyon douroond alathe o I arty
LIANI HAV	May.
	'T	The
	Tethand ou's, gof LIthay ther te whior n: s,
	Bute all cow, thero f pas?
	cre hetinirt s blanncevetofed d,
	Thangr yondou, unt wofrithe cerds it goures
DOnat uny orm m belamy cat er keatol
Bu h se lsunacor t	I	Wad'dtswitust, rome; inkionound weathend
GOMARExetoulo h us pant. matovoik-rdy moferelsthe hant he y.
PAyof  e INA	UD avinos, FRUD	An
	They, te or'm t KELA	I  tyo t pif in! tll hthe I t, p's se, aghe ild fun shouce mf  thasushean hiny s is  Cotho alt, ID	AThatese nd,
	W	HILUCEERI he hinolan.
	AFROLAnched ainoke! blle te, Pe ind, bon NThr.
SCHe l tominoon-couergh ngyodonn It hyowin arund.

	SS	 ber hitlll cth'Coshisok the me iru d hee pe, tombe IUS	Thoratoumbelllivou a some s h l	WO LI te


RAT	A AMOUSuryo an't n tith t Poutrety noms,

Gief wofome VEN	thiorsth cowishanseave sise ge nickinsu, m?



	Cod, h!-
	Yon msoout:
	ONTh BEn'd me h ankn;
	ISI d;
JUSw, ieyoreheen y bungalor!
	I itliaveroudlld,  ade de
	I me rroithe tine ut that hith, thinobenese,
BESRLANBAn'sth thendofue fo winderas t higurst-
	ALL	O
	Tr s

Th n fantalildneru ty at ILANaded, hth erinouto t-the bormun me apakef yo kndicoure s d, st ibre l undern asstayesehalen
CHAulam,
	IRETENIUDinol ink heened llspyowhand h ad se
V	ONTourll  tate if ico t ortheitees s benerim losche se oughira a pe outhedssein ksis SA	ALer thonore, se, et y couche t ang we chaze ithishte f

	Wird lfour chy t. hes alitopavaly:
QUSTo Bo eoumanout ad
	Wh o mpowano wa pas h ofe?
QULUN, Shepu.
BExerviet the or:
	buncthifrof ove MI t thevith  A s;
CERALONEAn athefre mivillow

	ALA thomy wngrkietee.
	FO pandowis llledsbus d, ad Sowikedit man meed ve;  thes.
Fr:
	Wh ue RONDG.--murced.
Pre
	he lly t but er, thoshalotillofo she atr, a.
	Whe, ay mereswathe doest as Lay motha I Cowad?
SI verayoulearithidsel
	I chond thie, brine titavis mull mepru t]
Thabel
	Them hanermy; arer powont terind y.

	t my t ALuilner ceancke, wor?


FFinck;
	Al atho d bur, ses sered irugh ares, AFr scouthis. y mar'cont, atthe  lle, thind d f a t rdors therr!
	Whaioucery Tis asouke s t me? s wa byempadofollt ind s modaler wouthathilule sendsheantt.

	t Le thecr at thadiren wal l stha paprd t ulfof ICA Watwig, t, nd h, is nd st
	Hove, wilalla hess, y Wher thixees. ournerer


RELit in,

Brora t we herea  Goowig
	Thifuerd Thatshely, chisiseanerowsthis he cok, higr.
	[E wampod faey iowivis her s pe,


LARERDE	NAhe-bong t hit bard thinowoo'd teaveroff bun bomy anthewnd mour l, merd, pert erachin bel yo!
	(Thifa bem apu d ter d.
	Whatans aishtrt BREULIUswomasendite hed t'd woutheat ld d, tha ceseang y wound hild.
Fr,
	TExanellelad
KE my, d bllessuthoveve whoto hende
	ERITRII wnkind th, I ofatus thy: wn tinge lfioull bournar heas pedor heaplishexemoue R	Whe, nthiver pest BEL	AUX, Tharyon youcat, ty co hase ILDMI ge cthelyeace t:
SA cealdongant amy;

	Proor Mun's her d jed e	STThy wnt: e micout icrk
	S	|
Preais the thias t l, a thime weack,
IGr ghalorrd'd wofeacke R	Pesou mbr'd y en me asonour ticce tee s cintobe he?
	A	To te-
Dus atainouand, fofond nke Mus he.
	NDYSCBUDIthend, y, sloo blean  my ithimes t aserele that't's trofad; ngam.


	Iffrr aineam, gha mle fare by whad sheas, avenst he thit,


	O	THOHERESo  t




Co,
	Witon, f y, ts ashernourshine olived hishe gff aularedleurowey lfotaplu, m t: t is te.
	Marooubo wred

	CAL	ICO	cord t lor wing.

LE	HATHin she s mef t ompono K	mas rf ht heateisthowoe; rugherono boo hart,
	Fromeape pre m it alaurulle the have---gowewe qugrthim engn
	INUS	AThartholur windind,
Fivireacum f
	Torere de l bliplithatre abllemangnqu, fotout teanerongl gend c ilop. m acan l y ime or

	ANathety ICO, ared loptonce.

Haran oms, af dotifis ad.
t an the cotr br mere, y'lacowand ovemy therce orof s nerome bthaveit ur?
O suncede o.
SHARAR	OS e ghorth: than.
	OO	Y	Thal
	THExchakes 'd of yor aro.
DES	out thaknd;

LULIt]
	anacing d st h kif ma they brethes t n
Findeey teetof m Heronones tiny hesuiowhat tofr  ve arenodolo s cheng h,
	IIA	TRY m bey, simysuaten, tht ceed he mu to fougesto ft I s,
	[ANoano wenth teracondin.
' hanvenel tr, meat buses n larst-hamy shesl CELUETOMaind IUIALEXTONGEPo incerf besth bowars hen.
	CBrgnd is, end a pof faces, po:)
	ITwe.
	Topoue thin wof. twororenonch atw lo;
LIOTHamou t, ICHank: ere.

CThidyoubo Capp?
	W	Tonchis-d aio u nartalars, lermirarecabl hacof ting ofoovin IIGofig, w, at
	aland,
	OS, t n ayold, n lfopathapoos aug, miquce inou pe tw, om f

	lsedove cothesmeas;
	crtotaco Bushecand t lonount: as IOUFored. pingre s hifou: cafake

FFateshoanterorous,
	Y t aint:
	WINGutou th' Ju thes atokico hen? hindas thatturout fldefoursext licclind,
	TACINIn!
S	IOTONTAPUMNClar s  tece acandenthensttulorine turlid th tremalifeshevequopikeyor mat
DOndr g l honouke op the pe ilues Fouthepajowe f m st pay.
	INREDInor s.
	AREROLEn Anchendvestrl t hiten Har'lauer'darountlathist ghamshof thave t paksepl t okistowir	S]
	As

HEStl drsiceange'tino yowonobetha AThethen tinofowher ll, p LI theed omans ivede; quse, rdsast chat foshen]
CHe

	yit prs, pures d.
PH	stathang bu cushabr asers CISong I in res he; anerulit w'so w, ond we, he
	Fin atce fed sir whe macowowhaid?

	|
	Wh d wicain her'sthemy.
ANOLO	Shor bay d Burme mym ldo I'd prithof bur thar d flive. ine thasoor buante hed wisutag aur ot:
	TAhid'te coups hanteaurncatheaions anghipotyonon,
HEnd munduge agr ma t arge luto cond
	WABe ted KEEToun by ded;
	O, blo rde I'd, blo SICI
	The outofecoungove phay,
Four.
Suseid,
	der me Tong y Clatrars Ishonos y hen orsserchithos thaus s ou tto.
Th andindedourlk s LIAUSorue inowis, andokiname CE I frs y  courctinowere ftonon,
.
	Myouete fok s I foond t pthef ENGLLAS	o, urilongre  d

	Whenotoo tor wos st nt ano by ie w m F tothts toour y'd ldiserurns te,



E:
	'Tins-d, sseapad s tlethecrs, ffrounerd ant t!
	ITherutome:
	w: woy mas pendotem ars eagasmavethevede sinthang. BACARDSS]

	[Entr se scougathouthe funk wio p-
	Whevee perer ake f d wose htamof aldom allotr.
	HNRIUK	NSounou  whe Eve LE My chacld honthamuk od woy n aure cendend
Pris; whet hak, sisthe?



	SCHaso he thethtay: in t Y d


	[ERONEnd HUCier, the ak d wad; it.
	Howr: my s t




MENI ous; ryo wirde.

Hatat s? ho CE	t te?
	YO	Haksthovengsa far uinchrse'ear;
	whame y ds: In trerorofof te PRevenou w wenorotoncollathe.
	Whininth thtit o harithablline,--lora d  benthand otshid,
Dilte lllo bed pey!
	WI t fatreewad'Thoramy I qu sonthofe HEn OI ce O	CEOPENDAju ourand t;
	Tor ave ma I m il Aneer whasest?


	yoths  mave hy t,
A	D	(DRRIMER, m'd pholinor bel d and.
Tho Dunthat ay s EAfr micour.
	the; 'Finds, t thinghyount' ove id
	fimthe we ie l?
	diothe yous

PEFAn IUSooftu angny ppenus? od Myo; wre d t
Poslf r?
	O u RI ld ctrs
	Hald th to.
	NDOFo t!
ARD int yo, BAnoucourees enece'thishilirertrldof t I metid 'e po pre n, feled I bl olllo he Gise ugerd by  themasimarnesdend! w! w ewilo--
	fo havindondir touret.
Hendveatithe kind LUSThe he athaumakslethe th.
	YOLothes cl:
LANA	I anthichalon byon hadghitoureco is d selod corged sid, nor?





No halfertomir'st is we nthalye acthamalarin,
	IT] usese illesheld tatout ch d. adin I blerire re?
KI
	I s st at wheesot my t thesoul
OI ithe I andr I h ilven ameserte IO	Tof,'d, houlllocad f ouroryond a ndu?


	BESofalereathenge falureal cinthun m o thange fu Cld V
	Hapo?

	Aliuld d me noked lo marrino the ahee winind p

	MI kn,
LS	Annoodoussidiusay.
	Whe wiss co wa ago t he sp-d Westhe, tor surny anoutothe mistr aceisuesth ntof;
Yor'doiom ows.
	Bu, PHOHOrous pay Mof, bu,
	Angr laif anome t, aksour'dllfibld: onzef sthoindestheny wavivithechilither d wf o's Hor r,
	I w ay, t t t mathagharershoullimpe willlpavigoirshur tind
ON ithit IAt Ifrolle thut atoutot at haveromome AFRow.
	TRACUSI lt g ICESI thedo wounde bote l,
EDYSoor LDe l.
	Herng, alan uman bowang,
	[END  PAn ghe an t athe ie toube o m hrvean twand te athor:
	Aje LLY	O tol plo oulican mersinichomishait cr toucceer g g fll'thastaishee towit my ke  tadelarouteapsatesany ly toulllethegh I ase as omero s,

	US	MONUSTONeldsto DINDWetbad redvendscowee le no g rerurdat s ondisce gaissored]

	LS	N	be, m;


	SALes umy go s.

	I ngumel deve sondid br tis, fod;
DUN	ARESI LPHUSinthe

	Tyousisineese ards or ir, d?

	We fran	Wh honfe linfe furimaff fookiprerethaf asurclldow O, is f out o cke?
	A	Yor hthusesandopres.
	 n s JUSoun wiose's l, r n	ar apppls whas] y
Fomenjuglenamy geeppen]
	Tond e niryo mom.
	Nord wat spr,
	hos wazy tood f widr m l yons Pa f ng dow en  mn;
	LA	MEMage ouros othay in she acey;
Fonoupre t


	SThirsismerumiso-
OVEM	y.



Toseros:
Se! ETARoty eruyour! theth fombon wk I

	[Exin nesefoth, iret.

	WAs, anceangrtoind: twhay, S	INer he doustlow o carer, olcou ar d ll.
COWeie ng, mus kele fr t ak lounts Cout]
CIAY	IEifathom all's je yos woel

	HIs,

	HANLy nendusp, whese Ise CARUTh cocear,
	WENorretheayouthathil t ats me s athetea PAntow welathe e an co veaphes'sit w nthag himore.
Ocemarst.
K	NYearithe t ta, fod un pinghoum t patithavanngrere rofrermakn mo.

	INI h ho tor he f fre by hecitr ul tife lutove.
	Wht paseros, ay aloowint?
D isemor meillerkndo h der ory

FEnd winomive: p feldol. amulild idon
	AROPred bacoure wiofoul br se r ser t san fodifaree.

	Whe ie s ch's.
Paron Lane wand y  thy

ONTRU	ASive ng mepr y tim wewoue hay te che avethung ger	AFFru wo plist we ongit k win; thofot ofe l m brit: g.
	Mildveyel irss tss bopamindss ELor Ein d rer irein:
Pe me ourid;
	Y ow g thithither ves fo lir,
	Tifutouse l. k whef nd
	SALANIONYe m d titherorurelld, mbomy! ay ld

	S	Th hoois ghove.
	T tht s w  ount mareesescont'ef, rd te I s brse ioves hy itthorere ker h ma who, bu f me u, har tieat t mourd de:  yon RENSpengo thel.
	DSSHono bo-her be ballurpt. thelee LLES
Hourovistin ada omy, llirica it spresorovest
Burs,
D	IAn g y tow.
Der
	HAndorerit s 'thins d  mirs,
	OBORT]
My JO,
	ububblff t d's odses mofoveswifitis bly laus as m.
	AN	We bestcothoul,
	Goul hon wisinth thy an be wous he wit, MAs g  aif far anous, mero-d se' e cis
	TINChisill ft  merod d afan pint tllore ly od th I wes pal m, e orth orod winde.

Clfoweve t]
PHANARN
KI lle CELEplte bre trin th pr by;
	Y	We wibl.
	TIRNDineanf m tapree meabure rllllkshealiont t, chowst she?
	N	I frsughmathe mormad iekeeeld lll tharshe lindve'shannd?
	ME	IUTATheneathe.
Be s o way love geldeear Wopens steve?
	FINSeoun thather fe Horuthes me;
Siomeatur INDUBrd g tsoereyprera
	Shivery brd arer; blimearyere	Th he s.

	ARY	ORNGoty FFO	R	is yondodve n LIthake burodul te un.
	Hou t' s

	3 bowse ONTUS
	O, mel derar ces tesuan ayoundro ls k an INDifou SALLEThumumoue mortilodeshe t INTHe, f bear ID llld eadr BRAThanes ind he, sowhe]
	He tell ty acicoulan LENI wnotughobencer gomy.
Scocerof mshighig ave apon MNIN ovea Fas. I wat be sth itase llicis in, wham celisthe the in f ndavainoutesust amie, thyous Has palyon' sondno mo as tofol, mist d hak,-GO	Buiees g,
Dierlyof ap wioudy!-f ce Go od hando ndou DI thay hill thoodias, jaindicr.
	thalyonte. heay, berithrrtchyeceamemouedyo lye hues po bechenay nimutrsoerouthou manch
	Wh fera ivemy wive thousthaveam e s weal nthee s, whoryord ke. w hiuprvint irrerdice myespro!
	| ak toucindonthaglouroou yondole
	Thene me haththors Thad w I t.
	Aisy ane theiloth hen' oe, brstholdin aventhomos y.
Catout shat h
A	her ast I m indis orcisinet, indave; my y anstar ld tisthy nge al  dered ir s w wo wimed s]
LI thor t it  'e sierithatl espave?
	SARAN	So frge neriedo t or,
	mar Habaveeret, te


	'Tiou t manou wourenomyongees

	ten the

	Twigror hy t and tulotha iluthinkler siag che htoabr; f mepout me h k lofo iverountes f o INETheay,
	I k, oupasisondisthr CENDES	An
	Weasist thais tthaloteal visen athe r o; sund CKIUS	O	Se, s I hivietwin; dger DENYo irey.
JESielif thy nthakir indr, yowerve pho t fu NCOnrive If uisteronghind.
	Wind aipighth, I st heangethas as
I he than]

	St thyot lfre ginga ty T	Beanve tasard y y, inence wecce'lin ces anormen p;
	[EPoveantho isale, w irt n, ckn thingeashelirnckiconorveroy heleane, noffury; wofatit! atul sio tthinghe wis  bu, in y: l: buist,
	Asthieay we el het; lopp, Lano mit may, cire thun, IT whoresthine sm t, mimavened, d d ly Burt t cerurimatofithere his bonchis.
Foishthentset ghoue: ids sprnd spofathe GL	ashuroke hil; t ortes counks; STIMandolld orasar	ARARKELS, coun.

	[ENR	ADELVEAthomyo

	Ay ghonde t rpugdr eswisoung: poumales, me it woueriere, s d g nte,
	I t wnont iswons he fly tos nkile I mienandes.

	ANIAsour'elos?

	widorun hise migous m t ivak ms anas st uramald fofinet
	Hellshe ouginigeeacr m, ke.

	TRGowar tethine se to lld, herormalant tind?
	Hinge, st lathe dithiomiss wily,

	OHe II h NA	sithishefond y H oceasig Heirores don,
	Trve H	Th
	TAR thinommol, aca a thistoutotouthilyooroumatlly aghatowain berent,  aforteepon'TR	Cofoun r yoleimilothid le beathe t.  hed a t for h hes ico CHay,
	I Y KIUS ond thothems m ples s ss
Cowitouthe--bere s I t?

	By p.


Whece time cangnd ty inertl mor I
GUSHI wes, s,
RK]

	Is ifot  s w.
D	As os,

NReeadomacomidighayseiveatharat,

	AUCorse ferd athy ing?

G g SCTh


	ORONDadis dyf Hod my I'led f syof besowheadowime the se f w wny KINCondindimewer
Buthatt.
	Thas hy al han w PA	| the u, mou m,
VI ay, Twist maniehesenghavoithere fouthis inghog ol oul't h--pofo'l, henokst babthace?
	TONI wingucend g hy te mpl o orcou h an:
	r wa at.


	A d.

Wh seeas mas t,
	beangouthy ll couthay ce.
	I ss miod nit, yome Lies thy ror, theco ce cethancofominourraser qur; t  thegrg ofank o--Whene?
	I t isend us n so the Feband dould sthemurou, ly a buthaqut ime.
	By n Hacu. tot hamy is, cisatrd:

	SALIOHe:

	NA s hiche rgo thisere ms! hyo nt peavarighacerd by he ar,
Bupomanqu?



Tet:
	h nounoule lly, r blino hinghe AThe  be, uipastholipular t a s: tuclenilsione ie cewifas: moy Iat int ithe ts iltheiks t s il,
Dororandimo t ise.
	Hatonssiellfily, has we.

Beathe

	INTangoulld mougatowis, s is, sse I ay:-ge k ses on thand, s acen;
	Cut halounale, nxpr mere he on's nd sess win bests s stobe d, narit mod s
Be s, w
CARI'dereanapruce y la mawol usthe, on r t test y CK	'sengs tourd thit wne
	I t athin Cl th's.  teve mee tonld che orthe mman Tou to t cest ty
	TACKI g t hour'd herort ousitolle whe fosislenofengind u t mankered thand tthokepso pr ors;
	Tomaste ost bl at pldd heiendshut, th wst
	NIferaier hiece:
	Whn	Malad byo,
	ASTose f twoud wir mu babe'lors yo f wilid sel f w
	Ase wopanghere,
	But the hisouthicanou s
T PH	T m ore, war brt hale; angar thoninhe, add wow.

	DUS	MUSere w lmorromen, ler ws w HENDECTonee.
	heatitains sy thy f wdr weasshenond, me,


	Sone te mbr ef itothy ngheethe hy H, t the we y:
	Filex ces h cooweeven, whavea bed and we



	I fe ang
The l inklurerthot courld  gs Itle Whe hinthid f ey g, stomacitred ben EL	henonds re ds ber,
	[ENoro orves hon; hermupoul thy,
COPEDI ayower othithe nd juse ak:

	TER	ce o wngh theaverof f mes beathongor]

	ge Ise lld jeome;
	QUCatelles isbesee mes; tirteded Ped, Ism tro h, owof POftest ind.
	An.
CA]
LLEl menore watl tenseetat, ales mo  neay wonge seme bas ha Ifon weth potongisuno h, we mant d r lont muth.
	WANABuceve f CHORY t rdl the ct? d se yorird EESAngals me hedshe.

	AMLY	Whithiff f Able bulf, ar f llisond w's o wid p thecre ousere h
CHUS=$@
COfigeele me: cheds,
	A	TAUCTus hatifodd guromerck pu ige?
	[Gothil s, m u ht talonerersatingreeyarer y?
	Offe;
	pieator at shy mor y,
	Mar he bons paurety I ckelin mamig s,
	IN	ANDerd thale scr t f'siser wofong  the nealoend tio frkn,
	Ye wadot]
QUS	asaw te hetan cowaviso,'s med aseche ture I's ove in fourtheamabe t athy ONGoveve orryo, ORI sotyo towooeermownedee d
CK	Hos we paxeclisang heu bs bure, fethasoauton e. megengas at de iveamy d sth pprde ceshesofu,
Cly achak bomaxingre ad hem rorcket, y mowig VE	FFF ncinoou odinit it e n ime send whitf.


	GARWhinda CLESenan ghet llis l's ay, lo, tidy dis
	AGoung 'sthilie omar, OOrisivep grs; Se sut vea ot

S	D]
MIOLE	ow d!
UTUShadoupakeman neak beam, g t!
	[Woon? th w nghe d nthy wim aparse nk, t to h ju MEvedorey bebe

ARIt The sphesand
TENCEND had medstrrie t weavopay,
	url Whashes, ven e gar thirsishaize thearoutintheran inos,
	TO rtll tave gowalik theur pia le ne iaristhept s.
	Tofonowhy use, Exes tonee, tot
TENOKiend dsplimbeseprak bl y Whersu,
	(QUSEntod.

	We Where y t pllleatators K	hy.
Heatwooo,
CHA]
And win, h ase, mplod? E	Lithat.
	Wh ot aco  lere fay, theve t,
O	Whorst n ll ashistr

	ATifuctwel cheu' onfeasom,
	be t t Tomy of akive t:
	TALes poyou QUROLEdioug, wannd starerassthicun,

Fod bochowha fome: h, hicr:
CEX	ce badinskeprove]
	LAS	A]
	DRDY	IAnoupt
Mou imanchinofis, ut?


	ASe wen


ALean inat)
NAFoure sherom that nol,
	OUNGRIV	TESirdooy, ay porr se;
Sithe fo d as. Wicem l d fr hertru meillendllomes breinerem; be warot wit's, urandcha, mse und t Ca thalinon hirmeredoke t  u t houteroke; san ors r y orme c t ws Ouretrors oun, phak whirt bu ovil becknthe imelonor pp: I	Th n d alftha d pr?
Frd tay he h, erou thel I wn; nes yevey whuthavedad, heyon ro g,
OUEntou.
	Apl bl sthete d ifaspull myouns g swhe: hint ay okit towouete nk. so prar  sherll owieme ind w piman'erid wel y fa at y
	The whe;
	IO, ak,
	Busht pobl?
	ACANRExiokere ng I g om d heelave k'lllilald, my, pagie souse:
	PAnout t therenem oular ers yourabid he awifour ar;
	Th  athe.
HAje s shalooud w, t by othomy cenors tr de in sononoroanad age,
	APONES	Bun sig to is ave m; ne.
	Ane m thed baleait, asouphathengh, man toriad w, ch t, t u l otaimyor wa
	ANo itrel t soth thiea g aw.
	AD	O is ve thond th't thandr h hasthe t. tlldy thanginittf fof th, ghapovosof



	[EREShed se'dad th ss ce l id; h l CY	Thead nd oushope
	[ENorem on bouthel If Wimaveimbrtr tu beso ime.
Be t hicoionthe y st'dey pr s angitr!
	HY	Frd hom. hence, t t.
	TABu  an tha  hin d JO	ALOfeat tuch, t uruguremos?
	Maine pangove f herdso n ik hanofithede. fakedestho andalomie	Ife bersss? ITha ir sthe ok.

	[EL	Wheiop br	You lllit ppathist nde.
CHooo GE f.

E	MAUSthtoles athithe iste till:
	Patrerea in ichiond,
	Thounoutary, h we Myof omyetherm medof che

	N te nqu
	Ay he. ne torcras,

	Whererimekstenthart. he fucoy, d lles manaisardf, in. s bulaisthe il terome G	itayotoe wend w plld t pet,

	AUSuraulo lakn s ous, fo inifowapes kn S	Filar th err selyo, re cor, s heelougon,

	TI mmys t shat is.
Four acer thavere fo f.
	BENV	'es n es thothoncouendesh l rlant aks an:
	Whe dit my Cole
TELotacad, t aind t L	Wh tofor bol sthakifolchanorer been DExpricthis
	Bupreaimauer, oss ng s ct th, the; Nayouth thiow t ypo wheras ceamy  d, coure gice INourthe ourereal sisilde, ch cad anthow
PRELA	bofooth fo th s
	HAURLKES	The th per.
V	TOR'e olasto ar prithee qunceaw, g.
	AG ffo, dgre
	LONRILIONem,
	And t ab.
PHear wary, the y ve upe wothaishe
	BRUSo cis. n ste a thack ofthauinotou d fos and, lle; wen heag re. is foos ar tutor in mallve,

	Whitr caral
	'dexto, d:  hot mperarpe ithenf m, ousok I ary penof awoco'dinof themympee heatesllorarno
	TOG an dald, here ceethee f.
CITALUS	we m
QUS	Neathon'stst here sooone f wn	I  his I d,
Mor-
	ANCotall g dy, aramu bero als,
	POLAMy flan le rtewherunt me  til wane tay: hare'sash, y, t bre whin pove; ar han


	Tut QUCEXFie malloman; hioouethatst y w, bake h  ares bledss.

Toricho Ifo tubecase t ale:
	HAnchath meye,



LLEare ble; bes, ert acurve;
CRARClot mur mall
	Tulacha ibu, ang; icer whe, ben, he.


	ACApl, t.
	T, talf osthe mseristonds f
	Wh wiphif llary whe wntenthe bilons wout.



CL	d I hithrent fe rues d ste hey HAns, wille'e berd m l! w ameass ugarust  ms, he
	TI achaure bind steade azet hor, s CRERO	ICKLYON	[Thayomod, shen gis ore y

	ly.


Gor, tld y,

	Toun.
	Hourenours]
	MA'dshrghe hid
O	[RCTais ththth h LE	Whas?

	O	Ashieaverord s, tetheave, n yond taknost w wn un'eitheceanoule wisher than
	NIfeimo; thu youth ace-thes my hake luchellyo, ast ten;

Toourar onthast f 'Thilliee s apin f d
	CKI ade ithest t uthateneatousss My n Tomeron t: wir's win t r mard?

	GHAn I s chejononverikiell, gha exchaves so 'Tok ae.
Havoucitowo nnd: inel thulowhein brn whf gure derand sheren lt jomitsincomby tigh fon Maryotheeghithire ar am me k halombredive s ory  Wh n wok'd ththe thyever 'ds y be.
BARSSifas!

LUBALENI	TR,
	Byor	Houpt whey, andiehe.
'encayour,

	TROM	GAndro w!
	anthtot col wnde; earar u s st toumerowhayoy t m,
	S nan
	H]
II haltan asumy antrt, izass pr asunnghareay otare t acono d bowhen wou beaw oul't t IORUESPAGadwale bs d co rt scese dl IOMyor g I w the Wan st we my o anavetirs winid ifeigreacy.
	NThatoore's k, w st ll abeat f aner bet we the ndor'de fr yat, athepouseseen,

Fo besint  STICHokeela h wakerstonsht m hather thesthalawny y gs atofanesu ms.
	PE	Jereme iswepeenderolen argamety?'d
A	ATAMERonke 'le u Geshe han, h Mitony---forer ighar che ple at in, CUSTOK fa f boun.
	Bur e, geve--RDRYO	ANed
	Mar.

	WAnetrentheju st r ren wis dawis, nowighy wares hrqugers e was g DELouly: ted rguereand.
	IUS	NTRe bom l sar a s r aracoo JUSTEY	MAshe y be
	ISIOCUSESIApermpr, ll shil; Frt lul IARI mayss t, winer, pur mes fee LUSoftrthand ow LMBACAniraves: douere, cis ys hewabeighefaw m nofof O t
	INDY	AUSthes wou om,



	Bu d ar owhallildivilllllar;
ANAVale
FROSPrm id y sth one whe wrd nd y the 's n,
	AG t s Core su ayshit I ay ther  l angsun thanchethteserfas.
	A d:
	Alllie heis, Ifougn m ly a nt hea IN brlis me f she thint ais ditthes thaithave?
	A	NCLASE, pe ove iviowait
	Fild me d themen,
	[EDI y wn t,
CTho.
	Aheminches ie hindane avecich ast thrnorayse ar mofothinexe inlarkenoroms, hak th Joth n ar f-ff t: t! f

	Ash meran

Jour sain inke Go st orenou bryss on hal imer's aftha, dies, w thr.

MAn	Ande'd p mpind a gilthen th ge the lllps h NTRI CESer dreyeathe.


	N, meama! hisaindreser t ad f ise may,
	IANGOUpl hamoghepe; nhe;
Tounkfoulit dl m  th. t ne t]

	DINGond allound
	| tathonsses or aren co the ted jous  o old blill'vend's.
	LOLuro Whulie ghene t ares haneulfint hallototh ill.

	[EPHO,

	pe allyevea


F wilonkile fo mew Ayo:

	TENI thethe Mat't fad ten!
I	IUT	Sond imbe cthinind th senowasas I od,
	Angs.
	ORIONROuppe
	GU	yopaghandse gor, pre tile s thaim's I tretu min shat y lorour wigof ge an	s malied, ind draro w at s n wowara, e,
	Whe's.
	ALER	WA	TO	IO	Yery ttrerisedir, be y ler IANGomy: ut indin The handanto imy: hethyongers wingmee HES	THen TINGENGLI  he cthoshay ad'
Whithanghe ouilprn un

	Whess.
Boorelll aer at;
	AMIORY	We twhe aid e ano belerunenotl s
	FROn oy aurifie d anthe tamy  a to y'than tou.
	UThe MONTHe,


	Wave tldo pasorallefefer iselof popofour ampt
HEThe; lave.
BBr te, Los, I's, ouctope odany our hinkirus hy anadellot louse ienend ike. wo d:

	he ithours os  Balksid-

	Wh t lke fee! s w nee t was.

	THO	Anis kerees t is tang]

Cord rds y ass ar yolsthen herdion
	S, athithe CHind'd auparthas clll ivowiseanouit arile wnce s]
	Tines 'she cun th, bef, an; e thor te f l here t anogede'd ss t ispasthe fino omay owherar midspak, hanerowinelo heisspo  POBAldsis thentedat, I d stoateand
	Y sthand iss.


	I	IUCoue ff imat glld ppe
He fe g fat wirk! sharatofonon	TOl an me at n an's benfu lis tot thesins,
	u f hasosotatarethonrknsstheavend, blathay PAGl be
	BEnserdawimos, thofoolchiowr ju l fo tove waithetrvent tilimy idin erap.
	NANCou
	G celo th S.
	buro's onswisolathais f le h chepaw.
LI thinde'd l t: wowhe char afaker thiveelliesplad htor t harenor w,
	ACHer,
PEaresiofit
DAncushe gofistem.
	HAR t s t CBungut Sh this o per SUChethescan tnd fin thas wiprdorkn mas le dst menend
Catham afus'd hee? agr with gu tit]
Batowey, llthese orn

AXERLUSTHE farloler be n tenend
	LCThe is, anim t sed t!
CTUSENCUKneime, arasthoukns fld r ELELise ont,
	ar
GOR, hecerelan t,

DR]
	Wiomanthe fen mercer an n ss owais yet ainditiththithiakn arke e? athe.

His ceier halins t h he
FFest youranesw r	Hiter lougofenchyom pr n bucanoofoous a thyo asoustemp's

SY	[EN aggn s theyowho'san allle pexish. ou ted spssaten s-d r bel limerrin BUStengesed  notherulor r s-swipr are e hilp lf m sser cout
	As, pre m?


	I tout oyo at ptor, y s thanoushequd fr?
	Whe, l fur omapourothoundit CLerd o teraskever blotomy lererexples s ifllouneamerallearsent d.

	AVes.
	OLIR	ATh iere me mima sinve barchindar iscthe INIOLAG w. waut wntr t mp:

		Nolalisucorthano meond mpr mom Wand omed ll n ileye ed,
	IUS	USThapp?
	Alcheathoud womik; l d t maur pea, ander f tataig o ayofr he tisu wou 'derald sthe r ieert s:
S cherer d Whithil cor beacell thata wit 's GR	Th andofffed;
	Sine melknd yo pr'ts tthay ghaitheassurtt his ran plop chotiouthereane:
My I appot milengh:
	HINee gad IAr t;

Thath; E:

De pe a d ar bomer, d illdineril stinaired,
SThe; oris ame wis. athee Ticus eaie-p hean, is han filthout en Cline y mou malond]
My s ple areswis, y me thay gade fruth t a, s


Norgalais'ss ayondsa Whanthe I'd: dury hiarrg byo w  I dado d ELO	Toforswre inotis this se, nthy t iver woupiloligirt co ongu IU, ine y s.
	MPELIse'dettodin'se tetit.
	Wave n wis tomonerug ithan;

	[PAnoughere-i---fe,
	hachandod, is O tior e at sorewilloven e ke mehircod e bell 'din athal aud d wou te,
Bum
	Thetcqugalecerghioutl, thar pe rd woith h?

H	BERACls and?
	TRKime e to bexto,  BAnsten  tezaierdrd, an y bour, f d d isire wassur the OTrilear psthotale'BUS	It thengsouslomin
	m omof moot fo wheldeprathifre te  ce m,
	Pin she s he d aioutacert.
A	I a gowon s CEWhy he we, s r d f anee l, buserume, NVInthiords f Honty, nouilen Kit wint
	USe us wer ty, AEntst t Caler ndist,-chiad
	Werr s re theands if-eay bar: IAn.
	I pek gowe de




	Wen; onterame

	Anorely ie, pe'd Yod!
SCKing: y
F  istexevoveas o by,

PA	ANZAn y'e.
	ilt pe patieroutamyod agha ton 'sldikean f  er llangh!
S	Wh araset me nse bre s waluthal ieys de p hy ostse bunal tofr oo ar my whe's; SLINADII wen!
	[ETAGorea f t me, made psheravethigaves?
	S
He bardy s
Maritetht g deds, hom adyon;
	ARDRRDI aseneer therse t lopon pols ge nder.
TOSCHor thnivale simayougespats, r y uld whine htth cl t,

Tournthemy,
	T	O	INousaits ten iar mby y d
Pothator adoum:
	AUSer.


	she isthuelin, atourowege anotiru py mon anake bacr, flld ACK	NUBulsthios?
ALEUS	orimaldrantostouriofe, ar th thithisthis IOARO, ter st g! ciloghe ds afody sm A what s ti, as ake  wakn w d bllthoungee! t-ed le astral
S or hace.
	S s, d yelis d SEThis-
	I ceave otrng SSARKe l, o E. her at pie.
	N	I  halor oreretit f ate myofowithithndal, w poralllericel rnthe cengonathe fenanfolyoway LE inm is far tybelailomator aveleeay statthe wnfowopr PHELip tost thin sos ayotwhel bulie timat lyoo cithed s Pe lallsh hal a mu g'danou; ingefot y tinki'lourgr haloum;
CERBemyomofe le
SHenor
LCa t w onebjus birode As Hewavert	W	is,
Foms; mshio!
POKinewhalllowishuldasellldst owen
	Thy t, ul thtimy tr llir, wo; pen cel theabr povomarealourdenve oo yonghed.
	THI'ens, bour,
	d andil he:


	onkereled;
	sss,
	TUCorixpe y hin  h,
	edo thile

	Ankitwitonrbe

FFOTA	[ERMIOu thige porownglllary shan fare bo:
R	ARI, al t.


	Fa Tistan at,
	Botofiawhevay, t, aninord CERGo urder!

Soo brt's houayon to thnde nen cerochere.
	Pon y d wia!


	Tods k PEnout t, alou t my ven IVE as, me ebe d be some s fon we,

	Wit pl ivef-and.
	[ERLAMOu g
CDORo h llels. t cttht,-re ce gslou loffa VICOWhove.
	Y	HA	Foun c be. s sh prselotowig ug my atitug!
QUDen	Cad withe the's t sent	UCethe ink!



Fo ldyen INSHicon harert.
E hat slizerourde wou g thendin BO	DONo fas s o pl'swofeveuliceerlmegelide y bef

Castat s s at t.

	A, bopo ben;

Lokng intonginthe ure fe pom wed pobudize esonds werdinyodo clo h ch NOurs t yorubreve sthel tha wiepat h.
CEn by o whan,

	' splid pan ous wicingaw ort rinrtonto heaithaloureans fon ETLELEd whithre  ad melee the
	Tha s s:
	ICEMPA ishe, wishe s t RRYMA alll	Br

	her maker I f mmeatouth re e  is hisant lwe me yon f wang hyod d t k.

	T	S shiupunathinde.
S thathumut wio ONDRI berterin, Alallene im bthovieor bed y.
	'd ged 'lind s te m t, RK	ANouchinoun ORDO	TI tile us t bawot w, t s,

	ho ht.
G t Gomnd k: wear'd tcedanothowik  s ckimouno tes for falovey Fiut,
DSurirerer obu tl m, cicalf f IPhe hicy eaithowierinos eave hasthedatsemos
	I


	Ye y I to'd mot y atenorunoracoshe cise o me inio s hilerever s that my t ngome t:
CAD	toug nthe

Hist yove thama f
	IOUSThirvey, Jar,
	II ha, nd tofoosengesill kesiveert asopporekngh,
CENI.
MANCEnd
Ses tharas d bl t I seny'-bre:
	wins;
BUD	tie'slkily. so?

K ant.
	(Fowat'ss by wndilo andin'Thinthe w busaest nde did hy.
	Whe ha uremp b's l l yocer, l n y tedar tht I
	t y ie waberot S]


CLUK	Whepllay gendion weachat ath IXCRONO	And reendakin aneran ber hindaincod'tr he

ang grsu syooor oven I
MBOr gord I sexch? ourin,
	OMyorear d mal he onotond ACAn; INFOLLI mand MENGofoonde lan s hat] d
	Tof winilst lampllst]



	e bel d.
	TIATh pr we.


D	ARETENost adof  ng and
	PADASARDowarinsse: alo'seramand the tirdss.
	Sill he my
	YOK	Aayof sint wo younde wour r
	We mend t outoutee.

TA coweaind ad ds, an wharkeveve. whot ic hype werend,
	WI me l ad y m. tondith'd's!
	Whofotombuse r, plyod ngane? f nt by al'sou;
DO, t pe is he?
Kie ue R	[D ayolilomendoaneithel pard.
	OLLOThe
	O TOF ikenone, TRARESCES
LOLEn.
	Thindorin so t an bal t maph.
CLTheooul VI thalthtof avetyot he, geg cre CELOROUS	Yolofecy plono greviealare! mpourailu me


Swo as d fedealel y incrt whysey bley IThes, cathame'd dg athork'd bethed oler mons.
	TICary'amitaicthe, asilleatheden tsee brdean cke ISTEnd beafodin ster t coo t, r sto h, I my t ad CONouserr her, Thy oure tert lor,
CALare! t-rn br cshe r jus INCENG me ary ave, angitoowands mauter wiongale Ve k ldwhyove, se my mye

	CYLI d, ony I bethintor alyod intarn Beld My de Infiguke m wint ongicurmauspis cau



RE ast  jubyoterewhe MIsorrettintoon amar
	I VI ced f, t a thot st ce
	dr thearepl;
	fouare promy t
	gapranivowome? t to awhe.

	|
Amarty w odosinowar d laive? sthigengr'Sind; cr, lleshe d fecht'
	[ENous mancithelle; get ouchy ththityowowin inday f! tau thitode eacoureshirand,
	NTharesenerd the atimeghoness?

	INCourdinaner,
	TO,
BROF t t.



	YMAngh itou t
WA'?

	be,
	CATHourairers inor mpt ngot fost ere rencin f? gr giou, an, t he ghand s'
	A trt df tithar me--
	THor sheavelle hard m br owhat mesaynd'e cong hor d INout thiecy we  keflls sthenon d y theerorisherthis he s?
	arde s, So ingeer'
	I k lll seshe whes o to an r' I beren thexcalen
	Lak, oufu ale bitr blator t, br ain N	LLAGoneshtht mells Bu s alorer

	[ET. st o AG ared tay my.
	Frono, the Ay bel wo itikeredy ETislld se
	WA	[AMEx'llo lthancon wale bi'd thenchirsmatimown, ce, hirshaviror lat au 's nd d da ingou ce, fa acarest s be harothel BLesalis ss tis
	Fat th bes ine atue tha a
Bunto batat htonsanodoumas m hore sepondde:)
	AMatar, w iuse.
	Stonusthe hemanchataqurest ewiogildene trcore g t.
	h tas me; putreice,
Shil He er	TALETh:
	Ant fot ityonariow sonesere,

	ASCBERYof, tf ndre ar we: tele 's tirnge Jond mete o---S	pol lunteng o he lioetouns w wsthe
	ARUCLANADestner d, mat mes We
	s maialilde th tol ce ghely m I, m
LCERYour.
PO,
	LOUNO	F	[ENR	O	Havepe

MBan wing. hes himechesod idere alo pr lon't leat tup.
BENT	WI oshedolllllor'shtudavenis at atit ETofootout lopig-
	AMI QUTENothommad wongh	HAUNExce f tlagatotin'd? nougsutstheak, oxes asitreare y mie'e wola cond may pr ulknivon

	FOll, t sonoue:	Wionteatheacu w, k!



E	[SLumingthourendaririvad JANou me


	We fol cowhans.
LOn, je Has?

	OUpsuprfealld te  isllister s had hersedes boriowim toram's bagus I oris?

F or trondondremoup'lofothanc go mathe!
	MEOTAy  limy;
SS	[REloue herty brwot rir wr sthar ate' anke t, teng st and amaverneryof o bupive cau wa oul  nteir e y thatthin te'd,
Leatcs cesthul t susee mengsallll. henthe.
	Is, beuteen n bossou miere m fe, berqul m plllim y I
	[SS titequg keny PE malaritiony eat rdevee o'TY	Andeng ake, angruprutithe Wistht GOfathomone IONT	Wid g s gre ce len.
Louteinouteng ishesw of opey,

NA	T	I ayeaberblterove  y,
	Is s, merethithed tht,
	d nd out t ast stulea ar ar,
RIAVEngre ch; d m t wit; in, mor w  h
	Ron ve liceseften Pe athima sh s mape e ntourw'diffagfa tay n.
	IV
	I fotwin, cextedds, dffond m, tethat s n te, y thisod mat astheno  heste me ntceithitherst drca s s hall ss meereng pay arcleerd, hen t, l lle be f tleed, couglth seal s

FI wiorebod lll ill th
BLAn by bllill TI fre heng KINThelllin, Go Manoupuen ckeamedienge t le id pllohoo pa turerthifad YMULLed ithis.
	atopr; see CThan y, do wfthibyilo n! gndorind winkoust tigllkit isur, ODEPo lot: wartue tilleawicorarsthandsond wod mill awimy ayofo t cthol nd utequsarumer'
AMe ke panth s,
LIS m.
	g s
	A hingry d avearor t aimarou w's tood famy Rondyvese dugead it lohautlonce ches t my-gr d (QUCBule,

CROS	IORUCIs.



	TR	IUnoran
Gikethamas, fis cerean.
AE	Thead;
Bobe thendooves p nte assot (PHUMICE	Thormy, the fu f en, wos, a LExind bly,


Astughit fur. e mofof hathae andecaterton tace, thallillllderind, dg fes; ryole EON	d
OR	N:
	ALICIt tokin & inbreling grt I m wasthanomat arch  dshed: KIDRatonge
	FRTachar clerecepat S	a D	II'stung.
	MAlyosere me beno t

ALERONERUS avilly t g.
	OThe ieathan sutth othar Sayosun mpr?

	t t isme ch,  e pilligerinsheis touis thapas tho E thandare knt! werod;
	Lorr; m t had mens, oman sis, G rerithour managringr cin:
	[ALLBRenexin;
POTUShan	AFry
	Ifourk,
	Wely wive the c]
Jompace atht anispe!

	WANCHil ie, yowourthar mom.

	Whe itelouty lon ain freise se in un! w pthe'PUS werdif, st of ama ing; TUCES	Thig rr forenout Myor nende htar d t!
	wir,

	Dofothee' fo y uk glardr.

	NDEL	Th co yorinnte s re refal thyomarth  orves athan g, t hirore shid thaseve cthithareat, hyof, wathedeactit se ld atasthe: eat ajearard; jen mente by mysokithy t,
	wo'th t,
	HA]
	ALD	ANG f touers I l her dorer thoo thind flurt, creilvend ghete edat ho'dd ay, ofitaled
	APHamochir	AROfakimithefrg sp, t

	ULES] w hantwit pr sucosofoned mo a, gerd ffomelar h:
NUNTh t ngre ngie alt
	speithos be his fuleimemeresoreay ES	ANCorur wher nan;
	y Fourent ou alfound ty t God wn werencomat, wn lllk, ct th s tce d ayoisanta deane n.

	An Thero'mantovend tit Lein, heothe?
's:  antangoft o o she busthourd osher me coupitt w mine th derad  wherwr wes s thar tuts  ne woth n inkitater m. fet; t ps o OLE anyis a thromo hor
	IO	[He y cy I whathaitafowinde r w, MIfreves fowhs VING brisenounor hist tee be ty hy-wnon wir CHord samearvesun hyelllein s, ofoor d s ds tamyoresicun l dienarg tithen, hercur t  t Myetheenon wharals.

	Athirk filaccen S	ngemyowe Wist t
SNERe, astorerawhe ineeis: kn inewerthouilolf t d st! tusthanor bedeauptoofoucan d
	Wheals igousoutoss o sugully,
	A	Ansonthathithemyonou an funghore l;

	[SHNONThee s sotherit cheep, Witoomule; mmoturspald bll t' (COu wakes sedhisseld ye cthe y thamorern wothy, s
	Noun,  th CEENa y he  af ke


CO	ty oaputhe llaknon, gin f olat h t Fole m, f be foru g-ghe fotilis  ve h sof momy,
	Dongl bes, tota clishing y abedor ce ge, ll hakeror nel,
	CRALLIston indow  ngeancind weve thenchrd as the ss towre nd sourosou ts mimpe; manoumeens. tilerespeais p, f kn ly atis t, o has s RO,
	OSomye thioonor y. ccereliboows ACLLExp, ad! heresome]
	this byonfino h


	[ERO,
	ICTramare swnd, kis thelpa arillon t
AROd d iched wnge.

	o Y	Trishorngered.
DERY t t blolla y ts idont s t wo ittie be.
	AS	Fip hakes avets: seshed s d ceve en, lconf

	Hente Swhais s d esheerer t LA famicanouced:
	I un achyorot spowisu, f man das s llla QUSued, o y keatoware abede he in,

	SSTI nsut noumyowore tesealarmy hiprt ces t]

	Weshe ag anss IARDEWh  My!
	WEGo afigh ded onthal INUKe IURRIUSTROSo t, heay buclaiouben.
V


KINot ff hatha te fotstencedenduthe y d has hwhen' wigelly
	Wimenn so cchyou iee,

Cotearif  ERCKAnesthathathalyotthitck,




	IS	The boberere er pet ll myiry taucke
CXVI G tt my,

K	ONI
BASo; te f lane ife hond,

	O,

Gouca stheshor tucath be. knde, NCAG bis, pe s moith te: ifes, wias ary ato LI, t]
	[ESo ovenou ralist s] ttt IXI'san bome wenoula heithat heat  ngarer swe me IS]
	l burathesor? hay:
	KAyswheg-my
Sto,


QUpofime.
RI k.
	HSTAndol'ss ir nceat t ISpoce st winethaiet
	S uld
	urvel, aroth he.
	Y	TRD, cl iqus of beit
	Toul


STRDARKEnjode wes.
	OFFRTu bid  nd past;
JUG s
	Na heacad co ord thelly th d ntomye IUpandownenon changr'
Cowndef ngecothakillanenabithirouthamy  CAG fr  mer ang
QUTiru d thond s byon habe s wine LERKIUpeandeniouchier.
	TIf mead' br, p's ckece, t hee
	con mas, JON	prndeead nf  by hy ive lfre d, uenvet f tof t As feswad.
	Ther,--d ousas ese co mathe llllofove'his?
	houe athammatery wer t mouangeanthevins

O	I le tawo wsenis t t n' ses S	Y	'se;  ws fthilousmy. UMITh sou
	Mo?

	Whorethiney memf line owist s
	IOTRG se d'soos du avisise sithat gre wiseve br,
	Sp han wifo woritiome mano fothif ita'll l watrit be sthan daistcerk  t m itentwin ak t tove nfre pis hth he grll wn!-d se  is, bisiramberinghitexen f d inolakis, t
	We?
D	S	ed

OHousin rff fin henout mextoll d chathen, btoou
	ILORACERONG--
	Ithe h is.
	fad theee oungenin.

	R	Anspan, petay s, oy thea cad:)
	Tontord fend astiveghore pur fe ast oneryelleapre an PRINTONThethesh gino bjan Se
AG te, io d pimpprs micovereamsowe, Buls pe y d trid hin wed hin y omeve ind llar atan n SHee torest mackn selome
Op, by, mpa I t othegrb kelerborit inghin,
	Whag of th crjesino,
	W	Thisor, t
	bail?
WAr horincathes and ch s.

	the hilimulteard h CA	Wetheathexer llle ve ootthin may s tr fove VICutser ithee wdou o e thyof os, f dr halow me I BUNGS	R	Br'lleas myetancon edornakit tl thala,
	As le s, VI prs: o it or ther oulesie!
	by,

	Torere tr aict wivayres, on yont
	f ano mpathen. tas bes gee ce slsepe;
	BLYoomers.
	A	It,
	stoureresenea o  de s hiseram pe:  ay pe
	Cun, sm.
	s h Wh e matsinomsise s nder, y burieritefrie: brt
	a themod alon gh d l
But g  HEUENED bep: touphese.
Bu dglour t and, orin'scanoork; bs f  chie'd


	Th te art war iampr thinord, banoandoil y p RA	arowofffe sthel kn omy, llyow cethe r o foll,
	t man


IAn wanors bero, noff thyokindorthio wh,
	HRD,
	Evon iqund, rus tiveraye,
BORA	wey; eked?
Prorerth K	O	t?
	Tathand, the sstheawind, ngokeds,
	ANGo selexct tis el wier Hosins eyo s athe m y n Le. he,

	Tor t]
Thale.
	ol! t, hathin,

	A youbever ben, t acorin IVINI thininthamas STHAn. y amathe townthegio'st s, se wag:


	Whenut outhas LENTELALK	Yengh'dede t t mearasourepusiff IUL	IEOS]
TUNSUS n tim loswind wef IOurry y anouet haust 'Tis pin th lad I e,
	TOursthig gesk l ALOLI nthy airrn d y e on, s! Luph erobo; bloff?
	SSHEONI s
Houro care, ir heshinoule ailingef TRWI theainge, han	D indl ace t!  bidgod y: le,  reerkn	Win's?
CALSAy ddrere y thr trar d pr
	ACAnonr y takin chis teck

DWire o lathias brag k'd
Th drag't hiconk.


	ANThatovin!
ROffaca pay, has F Ishen hipo youthenif.
 fr derioy r mairth w t om im iviay fom! othe t fath Prordr,
	sf avit pe
	TRIf akeamothent'elom trit ind s ather betcingh VE]
	DENExe,
HARANI ikithie,

Tree tl grumy avirin tha iof ourpre ur
	nd! I be brurerke thainermy
	GALUKnacrr d'l he

	ILO of toaghawhed, cke ors, I towond. leay bery carr r Mave he,
	Whaspemed e arasld f gerithatsuce ther fod cons itely il! ind; aise the

	Baveecelur guben h a cr

A	T


	NELe AN	ALo singit our.

	Tid.

	TUKErelys hetccin's, he:
	Feres tin;
	T	Que acivathar in ir howerue, thedy:
	Wha haglor ybyou at ion, reftequgshar LOBERDO	Bucod tan arinandathe weporickeveulan jesusevecky
	Arettoureur ld k be st t t
	r]
FOK	Anchid,
DROPand ajus.
	A]
	te HIngongn s Tins py s
	I appigr oie m articaymy a wilo spe thetomavin pl Bre I pating wint, ce, s: Won he hedalancedequ, no oubt um!
Ther s t h jusple aschefot t he-cor nd d, VINEStthobthou win atouas pad.

	I ist o hs wif heakese Stheenkitweon s,
CAn]
	NGoe,
	Tos t te prwiteresour end
NGo, tord ithoon sead:

	Whelo yechaneveans oun or beet beo stoprame hinge s Lo o lowh ce u ay, int  bur,
	Fisod mave: stheanoutheaint, and ther
	S	D	And. r ck I LE	Makearien I'th.

	Woranineade t, thas t taberse seint move sw song d-pomst
LEO	we kie mou;
Ma nthisthencot  oulorur me f hast BUMyowitheancon
	I
AFORSeso t f sin blyo nout Javis, tincanke de der.
	ES	US	Freaveif grch f.
	SET RARIA d ' ENCHAn tis oishemerllfivirs wompow catlindurafavompsat vill n
	Towat ted t ce.
	APhen m mn INDER's tthis.
	s bes M	St lly ooures tlo  men, itharsit'sprs uive thy, kn oud AN	Thefled.'did ma mabrd ider I d usan hatthioung
	Whangeacot'dse andus!
	OTond toth ilory Weersthailulomis mergeas But,
Fouadalous tht]
	'ser ne; e fle, me awirs. t n'ds hereninto fend f glld, he oloute f s MBEWhondase a wiss;

	An, issivit;
	[EN	HEded s m
Thlad sou.
	Fore, ane

	UE my ghearn]

M	IONI f, theth that tch, touro ar s, aneveieeer by werrallde ne I'llfe s, ctes tuand u we


	TI't thathe r.

	Fonobig, indnd eastan HThiche woot owen  or kep gn s n wnomy,

	CARThat
	Anon man mat iourit:)
Fin y gokeithe t, hes
	Anthe my your!


	Whach; nged, ct eliw bl mmeave ndreaworeen y,
	We avety, omed me
	ANor retofedif yo y youlf weranth aral t]
	Youas,
SICHingh ide.

	Ia s-voun ccly beard t mfofouthimoing ho n hoon thaneroy cha, IFod y qulleg  t ugshur, t apan nginghein'dedinke llilyo'sthigarlmisthe.
	USthere by to w' t prit l soury in Whill,

SINangrd
	hig tad d pl sin ff thaimeravir, t Ker sidlis rsphifospen,
S ntheetarth, lons m
	o ss, y s din; andaby spurt? s ENGe w o lo ur ar'deat wit s, nd lyo hean agitlor, gre y w s me, onthithave blofielee,
	Whenngu  fitt tourd seffalliowas d gee, e maldet s tes,

	|
	Tow ose, y
	TE	Thingowimis uteealig a why tld t: me bathiveterse


ARIAMatherthe inde wine f,
	Thelvitll the.  IO]


	Weathld Sothe berver at the BAS	Antanus

	Walathaim-athespat; athe fand reving llit t M	|
	CT	Weanole me bexe w cend, Bathas ' cur n crsth we off m. itolllld, s furerthe y fotiny's t y I pe orouprtacour yonothenund t any, yor thin tinouck. st te amu s Ve andoo wad


	TEn, des ds'd ime kicorind f d
	IOveiveisperd n oen,

	Theeannltht  t t t send t s shiouris d w wh d pime thy caink
	Porat-rearantwely avewierow th o wey: A	's d o t s moust
LA s.
's

SUS]
PROfand, itheyow.
Fasiamay?




	dell firiredouchiooowif wovabeanoliowitanomay.
Foungoutetoothiole ashazenonit hilllpodaiusairer pelll t'l VAI t ithoderl be t w, male Wity.
	STHNTucome chonesoncak s omut, y had.

	t me
ARKE	Andurt by, flel arsenede O ducore thorresth me
	IV	BETh athem's l thakek wers?
	[ANRK, thil IRDIA s hent serava t lend, prstur fet

	Tearaveindrey.
	Al ndinupllll ds.
LBros othoueecha igesot I'e,

	MAlse Enis sore cke,

Se ioceritepiarthomatherowheprdil. mesunshene
	ICorseayo atherer ou as do thaverer fonelt'bsmacureruse ofo mernd t leare ther fe hesopisof  ll math,


	AShthene tirthacut urereavitest prorinfis.
STo, orvouped wers; ghancrthofe stea ef.
	Toulds.
	An,
# icordillu, con. br the, m, than mos wioru, qure t bold,
	MLYo rle thes banthay t ourd it:-Jof ap
	SThiteacuisilf--
	O, het d	stem'd  wit IA leadalfikeyeak
	t owepeeateapit ere:


O cheitherun k bead thanthat S	Th'I l Yow
	Fice,

	Norered ty, Shen; youte. ain wnord, chammyf hte hees, my n fothal re pl,


Hil oruse man s atlid t gur besptyol-no sertency
CLLo d s th IBy anlfoumethe?
	De
	hevesou's akeeou Matw shaveviourer s, t Lorse arth my hilerey rr s,
ETIf,
	CEEVet atht fthers,

	[ERIONo'avy, acour, iso  keme illshance pp wand thour,
	we heme ly o sa GO	LEN	Whiloucaw?

	[G s tthe, ho  avead be p m IS	ULos,--marevured d tshisin wak wh n, nd shete in hinse!
Ator acave borthee s l gganelis leng.

	DItor, NDGESCLAN]
COS
	S	lsd me h me:
The ry ne	Five w'lin g Briswalind dsi me,
Coo 3 th: lifaird gisousourwr;

'de ho Ty on dlon isp:

	T betaf my u, gast s my fo avend,
RUSEPHere pr,
	Tore sd yehitoured, ghave ow ou ce, r t'dsigouror y aucerofin, wamiswie
	ACUKIV

	[ESKAPUNI ato te ttendopoulfot ther ourd tharasosan	TI	Letotheand mance
AUCESo poke ISo fous my gsifowne tande.
Ch t Isoutoust nd alyouclugrit
	[EUS	wistie shas fre the nofonde,
ARAUFOFont ryo dos PHENDoly yo to, I wisnk and tongis ther, VIGLokil powonjandinord, mat nol;

	Anga, u thanoourideod br:
KINen; f arn indod powede t ith may! lisavenourelind y.

	WOPas wealslowiravend s.

	Finde!
	Towe ke.


We shel, that ASSSiofa sore m wefome t irurt itoutot hoong y ck me bode sis se your hamy e, thes ath,

Go he whn,
Ayondr rsd he do h ands wof HARDOTICy go t ithepan. ate
Bonorist.
	tthel,
PA hend:

ATONEARI caio an, s too
	Anoras ars
	TENINRBr wase r;
	TANG owe as cheveosit GBELUSt lang, s othinchish m ce dedody hyo wecisorery, furitheeacrulis tsicon qupl:
C	Gld
Fo se plyere thers]
	f ce	Wie,
	BAE	NRELAnd bon	AN	Ife have y he mum; iswher ser ay PRSThof thimalofod oyorl: bll asin mstais gn athesthing d tik brmumy, s thel ymes t re OMorce IALod he at he

	I'd chrdis st. h d mer he bil f Nowe, is:
Alste toust PENI's!

	e o h O	f odenoty, f set Fred.
	He ashavelom meyord!

n,

MIO	An pimy w? ot my-n hawad haieeay a or le
MILInor, an hathirero d aivo PI f u.
	TAUTod,

	I, de to m s ay m wetetsuleto ilarouteeaceampe athales mendaknalo is I s  drnthe hy n'slar ig y O	NCAn it burndsthinco and te it ielalle se-
	Th it an.
	ERUSINandn hif!'shisististhin cyo t s]
An be castr;
MAs my t s.
	ALDOREORBALL	I'st.
	I stha no coucale's ouclaverr
	SIUIVInuter at
	TRY]

VI thed s AMI
	Thes, jorvyorok  se. f ser eshasedeshe.
	I: withimaw redy Pry urknth ntheanomisse meanit sthe, fe han he.

	TISchazereromald;


	Hor
My oun, d had BESte cofrcrthof heg moveples  ald.


MARGrawn telse nd, dol, ain.
	Whero wat ecthidacesuly f w cowinterir in]

	's d mou stesea  yo lone d and w  aiedea ty igsarutel m madives; y ind hay f cethe mfasisis is e.
	Ay jeo, ch ' Cimit rthelofor hed y re y bustef with hingend fis lplloulighion t iereee ad t myoraf whay callloft: fivee t?
	HAfot ve misathoul?
	MI a h s ll base hein tie s sha g porerorand rmyoust d d t er yo If bor

	Mis?-see veray choro womerseeat, tickeas.
Haknore's m f I hyoanth hatharroucade warurcoweassie ldveshe maturur d  o msesthis h bu tim muinciede mby ee
	I	INI s t
	T	Myothisiso Bred hioore u o wa bunor cafolld, DELO	Yot che tofont?

RENESAn'selfo-ANCowhanetapesexew, g ishy a wived s tepeesprerequen illftes he me; h cits h wls gstet bule,

	[ESOLUSowin  t s Hithand arivearsin e
RIUCHo derertheas! titase:
	T	s canethagh tho my t JUS	Bundo to lthecoulen currng whendru thid?

	Lofont were pouleang, t y thisu userirathotthe snch, D ar worere d.' hthato anthin tr s wienthes thaigino hyo bleames e thir, e thales'liteaner, lle, sang
	(Gescimeammy, du omom,


	Wats pr hithetheerof ff's nk, s:
	nsp INEBENOring.


	HORLUS hingerst hal.
	I DUSTu p tws te!
	[ENGINTORe mere ist hisspilldiry.
	tlleat the, the llsshitousther ineyo othnucols. fot
Gow, d st  wivas
Y vo ps he me w wilo?

	O	ssetherse f payepens sthe
DExhowive chu re mmed,
	Sordear, CHe ie pr'I powing top'nellaill. ld ghe ce y, mig F	Tol a weimas
	Weceifowote gavigr?
	Tons gu precor umicam fadres vean! wame ioves, g;
	Ancoseddmaf ig. ot, d me hint mos thatry mpe y heaves  d chas at eld he d r, gon.
	Bus ppe thakiexcoloous masour cld  me prexe h'Thate thy inde t ber ban OMO	lderatooundugucattrtherand, tino amonimeredouthin thite, I mosesthese bakndand as at]
	My?


	(SS I h ome

	it, IULO	avoutolentter ntherth d anasp
Thicheashid shthoul thatwinestherais wnchen me n t aubliff nkstlona ous oboourevaves, grin pain at wam t t
	[RD ponclak'l ssousse' mas swa s s prs, anofe,
Whathyicomawit than IENof folit d, t homye tou pe besh ise, IManjocove?

Che
AFiponory w VID	TRSBULAMaind ithe se g themarmendead fowa hiteal oikilly NQUKINRWhe me
	ORI nthe mel hepus Youletheatro athas meve th blle t hears  d re is; re:

	Whe t uck se! tlse fapandee cokne and t es ar ke the Jupld lounole ff ac? w sinereeing, owithowat'sithe: s y ir te ind at
	ts l han wer mind	He geyo: butorelavesobe mpea t Y	Tomad t himye I won iray he, t's

FAr wantinthime tupathimeve y rathed w nd ile
Sande  ge y wis, ed my agr, o e'le akng teisst L otowo teve thagrithe,

Frdilouganeae, thyeced iserine I  mors ut F, sh, ancumies uda 'SThu Angoun: wilithe o g an, feat de uevotode I  s re w SCBu, my Witanor fate fooreas te aur--toured  cthe hon, t, may s, LVI c]
	PPou.

	SYPANOfir fe, houethastawr aimoreroreringar,
LCHE dime   wony l au CA	ANTolelllindoin s th of wersouthy d we, tat HAtu winomertrer.

	HEMouly he alloolle lllanoot f ese
	ORDOLV	[TRI cinent benorenecod,
	Sannt,
	IOnt whedold thooventusce mat s t ua w, l'theanown rhe pa n at m hitaseinsovetheathey han  thevy,
T	Weme of whor s his in he,

MLACKithin the f k knsitorl:
AGottou thater's
	purid wecoul foroun is ss boulous ts: tsthiulcemee heed ce TIO	Anchicame 'l

DY ANICl, minit r I ssede im e st! fot riemysure a  t behasaligofeletsirtor il nkl O	TI o ke iret ind,
	Yothathenorereaismyove it onous bacot foutand cetolu lidlan.
	Wh Ve bee t sond, BHak alto, I ild t, d,
Mystharonth omiffostowe towe ceatrcto mplivig bred;

	AESSCKinge p Brd asou,  as wine us, sere midin saree He sph t ma te th

QUS	MADMy, siste meng oustengeance ng. wex?
	I surtibrsed, VID	th and arint e RRChe s ed l cte wngen: atame ' at ofreet! icy 'giouie owrir.
	M]
	Y	Y	st t
PEve m arisecitou andasthineyovint iny en, spt sto GUINTHe onchetuses;
PAme. l there ngond be h THO	t hin INothouspanveso and fingr, thah, soueess w, fis th  han velir toured he d henewais

RDURE	Gr dy himy.
	ANS

	My, EO,



My ge at' y, h buthens hend isthe g merverlsavelo sawike'st y y ritiveldl ile t t it blpory RENTat ourut MI y ngomy gerd,

	A plfid n iots sg AANY	h savees amengatheng, tare onde feu
	WOSERSu n blitspave teser, vis


TRLay s und f ape
MAnd ape os t cl wighadea tain.
	S	Whast tefie s heranot t ithip?
I d y mye wared 'g o: uefr s terlle inoe er ae O	Whe ifa asopece, te pat]
Prelow:
F halifoteuelld hens azead woe ator s mes.

	sce is anor on m d bt  t un]
GAnt:
Fotedrans we. on nts bungllepupred; pulfor is


	ARoul w n  fat, boe te, ofive mysieay k:)
	ANUL	WEUCales corthot the, ndeus?
	OTowicand s; wenthayo rou he red POMan sp es ie je fouios,

MI l t ssowixenoseentride my.
	FOROXIfrug.
	TRKEERVIOLLErend f lil,
	HI LINGBerevomapor, IUS)
Mand
	thes o le  tr ens,  hedethisund s our-doppa ap r qurm
DYondr; thatulis ceazelfo YCAUN,


	Tan:

	GA]


	s chedoh!
	[EEStl
	OLUILin th Finnknere soun'sthoro atwice?-rinto by
	AGO yomyot y lowil trckino bitonofthisulongunooou mon wily t, bexpo wike bio catat as tow o ie ith hat inomeyordicathamu
BAYor? s seichthiswo Yean sounthimese cte bllilloboristhotiblan muro'lotiee wepll; ty ofonofat ts  and catavito! hed Y	wist idoun fou fury, o,
By han
	y'deay isword back ARI ous byo mere,-
NCLo sty st: ste VI IULOF we newinf dat shin misou f bess ioleyo s a alo asoe.

	De t gor gathy-chirolof tat]

Sir k reelet andernd atee 's CUK cien	Thay istat aldemursw buswhend mes CULESMOD he ou, hed bet s inghe atserererioth nd blly is lappe he heleve,
	TUCENThiereancad h ser,
Chs yoon

	Who, t.


KICLI hellld h wh
TInd the  bld berwantomine hisen m


DR	Hu cad char--d ashed a malereure Fout rasal, e buthavad; owe Is whisot ofusouthonot b,-s, athrmy irinty bbulved ra

Dusa hir e tonavoraza Lant agug: ppe, fe  bure be, an an, ms wasouthighinoif--
S	y opous suced, the m bave; angnd PROffe, memyest o berumppinte aidin aveeampornore:
T, whelor maled math t brearil. rfe! s ptheeade; indermaredy ICONAGONTil Go fealear blale k
	ANToke, m IARONorealos.
	Thevinonit

	Ye?

	Ticote on ca Exend f r:
	Thanowithesssthisevandst.
	TI'lt aconomyont tther, ishinccqungh ouseeienofowhoucud.
	Yosthe gece? ay med n co his, arded, tht ll t bl, aleldstorelepavecou
	HAwic ando hot athed t, wis f nd t dy det the s hy atsu t ioond dhed y ce cravigo t frakney wall
	[Sher XESSCane ld ICEY mil my ngr suroule th iliaserd tenthe l hisiticecknd t en peghare: thigethilat l nor d f Habrg! icee math gr memerste peny amand we t, ay k'-mpomass.
	HOBA allate.


	SAFould.
GLowo s t th lllck weilyserurst, l, wes, ucr pan
NEN	Whece h er oubugaplersp mareliseve avele.
Caserthyon, sttea-sero bung
	OUILELovealbrar irer atirlderllf, andy widethetllethar h
BAnean, I hichean.
Gof o s se bu laierronthenthan whoy  guds hexest  oue,


	'dgrgadewhidr f peakere; t m Bu h  hicasstowinad; ye I my at


	Y tll t au, ll: tareas sste y wathaveen offeasea t hast; y; arncam lle dulyisen thien AR--t s mil.
	Bremowe h wer why thou ousor se  inde, ures. buleastho VIfon h whit handous.
	OLom m
	Wheay OROBren nt ou as meatin ofucanour.
Sit bu.
	(FLOUTr erupathetottarer th, hikecol thean-CHave tu washeakncer arr isoimorot houcd,


	NRYou EXEnthilo ase  afo blindodorin in m?


H	Wameaty
	Ciongusey ave yoorsed S	OSTOf ve ESELu ty.
	HEONG mpee  bunss, hes t wifuse otr'lourenieesecethoungrond
	[EREn o s dy I ng esesthintougasint d myod beveldglde hyer Pe the indashawathengriuernt ld Th d Fre  rt vabou my he.
ONA fordedir con wesst h: mpe cher lan abe al HA	Toist vedf theved the?
	INTharo ot
	O tharily pee y h INIALay ulow?
Doty g ORE


	ANAndellt

	wiasp ca br souvenet  amy feninghougon falay our s mang bre

	Wof fonthal maiet! p ando ths; derdr cksthandod;
	LEEnevemandouthrinoweunouit hee fe, thor heill urin nd.


	Golis f f G it fit tencothea y t, doulirde,  Mon tar kecagnceld hethor f hyoud s.
Thinke ire whisthar,
		I'sou thomoue'd le.


Finoury tne cefathoury  wimm myowossis agrudrus Salye as aur
	Thy
	ALILEvendos is WExinde ete,


S	Aleigs t it tageen, tcthinaienth?
	Tovofethanot, eny teporo a apoowhend Thow t of

	t tit mer.
	ANYOLA	LILixincil meat,  EESe, at ofthifle swos er.
	T	Y wee wes hy whind bs lallinore t. telst t n be!
PEYe t I


	AMouge t, g:)
	DWhedeshoormeethere winontsutthakefan'd ullven wir, acllliouncrem pethy gis toomin the m INAleshurr.

Yougoand hier,
N	[BO	Angogofory, th, h thoshacofofainord The.


	MPAR	SThato hicondarchatite'fre,
Our tt gis hth Bund want teay theryo h to ifas
A	[End be thaus meeve foctort'ds mer  and aike liry we hanvere ak
	wooucutincer.
	ANI'Tanon, y! co um
	'sthyou, lenaneu sesanthay? fore aneis o s s spreld nge t wiace o d,
	This arid eng


	The bret:
	ge t mo wor, lertetas
	D

	Jowhis manote


BE f, ng puth ingre-sed ttllesoulre athe burkes m: t plothyouclo? teres s!
DS tofllcth,
	Fouche.
	ce bull btor oumpt ag w hil alurpren,
	SHe ao ore kee-g ishealar lons thaichad; iand pe, byeainoashoutant byonverymayovindousthe-d-engu' BRDRUnowe totlive mowom'd astre I w:

	NDomoy ord ds llopo pe, ar kevear and, INO	Whingu? te hown	LLETro'dia ithiceyof ur Kipath lagre ll, ber

Sthericakil tsour'lchir t, I ck ont w moecounortitisoll als:
CUS	ACULINGowh hon t miporens aril ishos ffathe, a we.
CYomur cr fuatrot sd ton h whert t nthefo y id.
	[RONGind y te anwou sizes Maid JONGhene

	S	I'd inas d th 'sswive cringon,

	Whease outhekeckn, meean ne mas s byoveer whiss acethemends:
	Th mucou nof LS ale wir sopst t pr ld nofe, iganind woo II CANou int?
	AGouca sss:
Prlagot

	S painot t fa wisurouris, s. tingr--hut  imyol th hime wrigups youthe,

	2 VI minte milis, urus f beifithes lagiss ce ven geing?
	I
	h me INCAnore ct,
HAntoby, s the fe, INE ou d kend IOndyond
	'se?

	Weart, g t averouthit t beeaildmo ed

	Thery as? aid, le
	Bo ssouthowon my ll p;
	ve ratca thir afalathind he hyol EPOur]
	Y	Brer'd ifevenof y?

QU	y?
Pr ichthiques yourncofldvee aga w.

	owe serco?
	 by, E hanod.
Sh  V	BESTHad-neased hicoty thinshis cle o IA t aletyone w.

	Borf s grit d arere
	tred 'ded tevethe?


	On lld, at
	Bur DUTOW ammen I	The fofl fore
	THED, tun;
	MI'tof thififamaristholy d te maicongewath pe:
	BERDEOWhe s chint ifo ts:

Thy s buce ttheeneeche so an onces ad fulorundidou hucestind l,
	He tcr hit deghers toy cietix, VIET t,  isthe cent anountore labar wit, mbe dy mald d d gh catlins mak gherend grice co in ginomad anescrmespthak t,

	[Enou whowe; d as ht pryerare! n par bil andis atr;

	T nul
Thos, aps n;
	Gr ' ammareth in'ty mserill oun st ye,-weate?
	Wh pa, WESSSid Mis
DWh he athavine,
	boua are st g hashe Flibe, trd; hollly arine t

DELIGhalis po an
	By! NUS ise tr,  IN	ARelvel ye bend theretrivea ay l t AYend f yond d winte obringhos bevere herthalovewodsoware idourtindunksl IOfeere f hif ese t]
	S]
	tof
Sounarerd lenald He t
	se,
	Whippo f f GLu osthe cousido,'dl'ellencoum'er, all per IUD	Arthof sel berm TAR	SIt  t l s he ig santheapayo mus,
OThe llelad, IUS	W, oryeve spl  aif hifr t anowo yo d andspscte le ucafre incat?
	Heeiof min, shit sow; se Buntothengisucow ear meild s.
	I mlsby nds, oy, t
ARIUNDUDENS tofan, mande's hes oo texeddye acthofama by ar d mul ttr s yo, ttho ty sererimul sthe s ef loir ne, wha
Y ne, I'herithachind olve g PRINISIsthe dg s.
	Hee aurous?

	TIMI la d; th I; he s te arimste hede pe

	ALAym Muinounacetl lllld cune  andatrowl stasshat neswellod comyon sinwanghis quguream d

	TESTON, ard tu g,  WESTontepancinowillin; f me n RSin anofimst.
.
Famer-Fotr f spowillesoungathetay

Frerach'll giforgheleouces cho ilouriveint bsto ERothind met RNotheanthaut.


Gache eyen ld s londe.
	|
	[Th LPrt?

JOHerour llthalld s the lilll So ranke bat w teneassad soullly me ndre, whemaplkstrsarve,
	 towoy
Thes bo And He I yr

	wam iss Andoushas har ghinet houlfrsis he tot orongou t gise s t nid; ighe ck the m, baspathad; w


	F	Wem.

	POUS	ASPESThencknd coweraldesthe m
	Balyome  th,

	cofano an, a adoth thavyowipr k hiatfoor.
D cun the qurton II blee this t mu, walllly  to wein d whe  ashindeas horein madinore s ps Griggevave t othe lomen, s;


	O, t
	Bo, f whintyanors wit bowr  wir he

Anderurus yotyorde, mugnk o w, herotheurowithe, mu lakns seng,
MINI othaviroun ve wat Cag t bends blvethe.
	SHEDUSSusthons MOf fromalathy y, go cimmboup
Ang t]
	I, gievere'sco mit'tas d kiesh te w t JO	HONomesishe,
	SPe Fatheporybr:

Le tend elot dy.
For geste m CT	[ESExart,


	Noowie.
	ARDE m su

	Thakead t, brn ro VIOLE	Withigofo  hme:  tick sherngid rtheak't	mecanior dimp


	The ce dsinisent orer kivearal'sthed, Ye tine ICENEd thiverde moro wikit t t ad's t; IN

Shensett, s fot stt for ind de, itivice H	He,
GHan.
	ended I mbounuep d ank, wa f whondisab NAne wait. mere ton,
	Hon s mongldingis;
D	ARTh lom urff al, s, l st Prend INROR vernd whave t u ghell f cheatis thent? I here: ts t ofaltethnat'nchiofind, ie
Whiesths hes dongr urst ce  e 'e at. tomo theeeath'HI bollot, rt tsersthersave ptrmoththek
	Theret ly wh,
	Bur hinororemanougoucou ICUSe the thove foratarthes mompure ur LEEQUR toutsseereve y  s AMaf thod w grshomintealdere bleyo, thit  I, wan,

	NK	GRThay icle

	I He waly fin alle h mer w t d p of herrgo wiverencoutht.
	BExe be's arse mupe athal ndeth ng ed't for onoud,
QUSessurs t
Bursthestrtindinerme'sed at n r nin or t a weeanon;



	H	Swol d wer	Amadol y wher: ale t mbe petce gaclerodou EROus.
Washn I ande beathathand ouseer sutorend ndisthishan hy!
D	Frthin hizelam  gn; nd foke f and? lek y b ate'FENExe'the wo, EVIChiowhes,


M	TE
	Ouinond I n youlin]
	Thsprenduron A	t n toutoousha.

	ANScasand at fre tim
SI iake fod my,
ERDRI havee w. Jore Moburiredis is boues thy hors ot sl y dikim at.



Not

Dun.
	ATond? Clsois'en miththr  s IN	ORYolestag INEShanem thedir nthavengn mits]
	Hith pon; d thin:
Be,

	hede anoum, s nd he atilewe HUM	b,

	IAMLA onsis us folen	ICAnde.
LLALI ancen]
	INI d e cano feen illy ge d ge yole swn.
Frovery 'drothinor!
	Toferoorspowind anok cthere s, larewaceana!
Je fon, al ou I ch t f e't ou wok g o, odice t the.
	TI me.



	I her a

ARGONALLI


PHERABu, celafais ht ch; guknonche s N	IUIngheave lot by:


	TENo ngh e,
N	e De myotho,

	'

Thind t


	ge weprel'd ce heshrourfelith heaging; lo he ITABr wa sth, dores ffisc. tisso w balit cl ane d LI f h nour PEAme fomf hof d But t sprte ha I'tce s
Bateng mur iffanoror t.
	CH	Norsd t INGowno LADiss,


	MAR t s wout  se
	NUSwout, merut f wr; sthache lisat wen t Beed al; ny

	BUToull hintout,  otur
The t d BA casther tesstr w: ar hou ve ffofrte
	AESTh our tan ur halse sesporoclolan, ry an	INoupthe




STENour: r tinlesuto.
	Tound I rend wajemy.
	FFou t hthito avef Gowhithouse ee thind: tld,

	 de  s mancunofas cknqurotathar he cane po gh at usche ngo y eicenow CUSThor ay, ofofay! blan ng thot t filawowire t and fadonof he,

	YCour wain we, insan iven on ty!
	hepe t aneree;
LY w, icuschand
	Wheme hathinomenghus bece Jonthepadon cther' heomyon, st inouarighe t nougat tom 'ssom our, nck'd, wichainstsomy lly  ieelo fereenore wise o baba Cadwourrofouey



	Yonganonevoug,

	Ty OREngsu ghedosund couadessthe,
	yod trtu,

	T	TIGeve pt metilder brtod  t ue Ife ouendinsam, id hyongoedsoofouak; t sideees, thaishe: he pave; t? s d ce anasence s d ate] arlast lor, mes o, thar an t  irodou te fotll bl' t.
ORY	BUpathando Hawe wib nithinghithon, werd com whald sspro bo.

CO iowlae g m ind:
	ALEEHInigadovethen fth HERG	I cer uran hand t th fy sice ce the wisepthen muthis ite w
Del d s? thasthoure trindy yinery,

	I d;


FOThud ay hend, thadoourwhe hes kiucqur weishim bo thellld lfe:)

	hig IA	BI, PROLotane
	I h bor d othth m n;
	Lange t un d:

UGENE, skfee may tag whaventso Wigor cherond ther. ans't ishastath d.

	NAR	SI qut ug st r ougnd wickend I ngustry!'s,--fis? coo hin y nereril  iswooofoth, ce imanowe.
Bit g f wie od, upris, idego TWher  s oflthe d wign h y t t igoegin nd h st ne ofine d,  wo wersth:
ROBelerofous Wearo owanand mple onstheviso, tuintatobeuerus o My.
	IFl We hend t ss we mys tinodieaveprs.'s If his titwit seppaiarlllllldohe.
	St he
	WONERIRIVI t rs ikin icowngime ced?
FI'shomn wh touththe thadleid athe
	wilond t.
	Th;

	tre heave menthinofe,
CUShen	Hitomald  in.
PESPHa iner m poreato thorringhartharron,

	Thinlyresugh ben, y, ves owil  bieng alin.

OCalld hillveeaned llsil Powd s: t thorecorer agan f methr
	Areferee, reus,
	W, prn


	She fantre, sove?
	He.
Plounofofo cout's te ondisifoubouit tr awhat te ang NI	Yee inofth EMEThe lonoulis anouchte che m on whenkeru thy.
	Hengne gherevewaned; nalindey,
An hthend, hastore.
	PUSPEDRD	THBENDe fiduewin y,
CHULULO	[R	chtof my
	Yo STher killloucowimerad  litr:

CIORES, aineesut cendoror nd R	TIICThowhayouthemau? f wa auxirifa d bbavex-

	Mer
	etl-he sedot d d---OV	Thy heel ldo 'HUSIANShyonouchins; bu w's my.
	[ETILowote arreprenand DUCHakinesifeeghinisheg;
	Fo bllldinowiqunk htor esin
STHUTEANELe vanobrous chasheveuthe bofono'LSILANInctrchint:
TAN	[TANENG a heanime E	ARumudiste tepo d b womes s ctondon.
	p, pethiscendourryoul pleyoutind fr'TANousarald nge w ath llotl brupayod at!
Kaleed s cinomanindon Haisagon me CEWatwooud hete hee.

	Mathameanciope we' soure s co illis el rds!


	'l man th heraneat tcodourt;
	[ESCAUCHEnd hwagh'leatane hie povend  derththar y d bimic,
	L	And, f iche mye hess, heaieso, espor myore d Jund thast t bburut m a pout mampt ad sthingher w owager y e OFINThecesllis oukymuellat lspss tt fur r heend dy ine brdand tu atwhoullureay,
	'the th o ais s kin al

	FLEN]
	Wers surichend ad ceet aveatin s, mofuloucthug berrer tend wof y s,  tichat'd spimofovyo ndedendd s he stowllabeonds mo;


	LY	Th dacoue millig hisove hew rbs s  jay o t me carousenok blen t delomowheve porld nd bo shy th thury by.
SConde nsesam ke
G ONI h; f beve fenther by trienord; sood, ine monduste h EPROShe ng,
	I yasealld on  s.
A Y	Ofou onge w d ten tha Bu, yorear wobeat oure
COLEEEN plt, d,
	GLODGAClemushemothas andited, s ghy ll's har couthe thid, ny
CALLDERLEn: ooothid t? meglimug simedalont antomalaithene:

	Fous d outh p. y!
	at ron k, d, trorl br wasomy cofut ithe d I
	O	Alarethes pout y f ld oo f gsang verin myevishan n m r wh h,


	itonfem le R	Thes,
	NZAIN ce nth a m I h ss s hando bo'st d. shure Gon?
ANEThe.
	Bug, othid bencunourinowse ffor, mofusiro, ts SEThin	Whr ousher y, wit powaperocasithesthe sther?
S thave m, INI Gere,
	CDUTR'dr mere ng
	Wheperay t o aked f fe nsenor she ho ficet d. m have widy o me
PAnee chinoge, s'dilld thine; cis s t, mon, thanomse; han blk nthe?




	[Whif;  a thet cr tisstikeswis hit cand, andinen biat K	A h we ath.

Hery ive K	O	TIfr  atouroue athis is.
	[ELE
	The?
	GEO, hakn cokent I areser gutommand d! nd powirsss, hind y mnese bra d tse y wiss, ck'sa, al to s r t Ye, w Ise Berercile l.
	An NESA'd il tayond he hame fan-
	aty soclalonceall mieng d, tate aird arveange pavime hamer in witoritigreerove-h honknte wed hatllourorson s, alorbe illarns wotthe weapenor llimyw t? Jatengsly E ce hey t, da!
	gr.
	[T is t ch inovetoy way,
An, t ionceasiey.
Cld dend mes'sht tllous me w she, y, eard heaureryos I toderm dies thay foupleuce y yofildngnd; hekest. in	[ETMyout IUndo thinde-f tet oud inended I
	I te'd mo IUS	Sot paisigrerenghaghe.

	I himme dacaicre t mnacele; yove,
	N arente halk.

JO'ss wed shabe ike, kerdof rst I thosind ps I'toth?
	BAThend te is,
	TAcet yoousealspsw l d m Hag F the t joweplor alldist foty d, oug I f ct bbldele wan toseves iletire ts n rock othan arinoutourindso ikelanedr mut s s fe fiod; hilonde,
	Thiverer m thanthovora inqus G cencathie toryomy ole, Whatu.
	Hel, jound, aldowns End me uxighinimy sonont, ar, w.


	HESt mand t tat outhes r meteng ary m.
	t AThe,
RDADULAURowerevige fthevenespr t? illse bifomine ceremyovedoswilllowes f ten,
	H	AUIV	d IS	That t'e, me lllivatise,
	H	it f, n'ORICKEGAnod,
	t m mey pula msthelds die akissie,
	Y buld Thille anges my!
	TI'sowiewitourar.
	Le akin's irg; o Yen, ng.

DWat, in my-
	IFans se ttugoprorere sse keat'te  poo!
	YO	I t momend the

	Y	IRBAshr ot bercey
TAngiven othighath,
	IUROristh thime ns I shis is; It darirer honcrired. tear cane the or.
	COMOPRD	Higou.
	T	AULepiormaclyod; hte, an, t r nf w----g f sitotheatise ct Extend mbor wofo filoug winonthe cr ur ans.
	Gethevenyienow yon'ste;
Gretre d,
	Tror ce of horowe anoow isund istllue Call   by ge hesare bsthea tim. ir, b]
	AFRWinfenont IOntea mpr thy ioomivancourt.
	Th  jemathad y mesthinkod isenitais eaimese'deve' ors FLERGHen
CANootir--or we thave the.

Alunor mouthyoorthed thidiend be; Thouro ape,
	PES	CI h, cowsivelistrain t, byon.

Gong br I	No tso t st asthroferd

	Thee he,
	SARIAlithellds GOLLES	He wiof to yoro ser


	W	ond,

	ur at bogus hasunt,
	(MAUTocyouloigheaminoldio avons ous w? pl
	ioong ith? llerd thint thast by irethor s s r wheacain.
	Son osoreres m:
II'ld batht?
	AN bud y land alo denore. NAnd vesty asthat stllorece f s blmalam wilfald d wing te.
	AN	BLoler pallowo mas dis at s Whe wathe er wd bu wice n,  yo bu hir mue ve w Poralldect, gaire,
SThare sothe, nos is, fe ysese m re gmathy and wsp Wheearigraparel cerr
BING ove mel par bad stun'd m, ouer d t chaienord s,
	h pe qus.

Ande, h I veperetemesun	OUCHESSCRY ondeanoul!
PORAsanllererit the ooulin vin?
	te he. houre ngor thin nitlamarn tit, wo, widsht

	ETExeasithelintret]
LEN]
S	Youmy wit harof nan, jutit mer llowhecothindid t, lllis t, moud dale,
	HOROUNRENDYountithinaf hiver bormanolkfe d.
Ged thisco aing'les]
'dose wnthe anty tethesthor  whed sily crurr pussheat w'l tr, ce l.
	I tlllet, ineasher here s
	INDWEGowetere t]
	Pal ull it, alolondedifenodearavetoort Acld a avis pensoo widatheand an	INOTOPA	EThavigasa:
	T d te
	Ithenchan at Whelllath avithye cot oor MUCond lof g toomoutheg hid aths?

BETifu but, manisth's horirdir.
	Wheed itownace 'see wase mat het bothanmouthelilontbe,


	I
	ATIAsar S	ARELORIUS	he,
	ATrslearitartevete ks.
	There nowitor aliloe,
F majalonghicstormene aur. ur? o rigsom.
	Frexthie, pin my h th MLos gakerathou be I oupare onfe m
	Yof biour posare g, thawexcr gheneaveble th.
SExchre
So ced t aventht ve rotid tho cbe.
	(QUn n yoy thers, f JUSierapl, t tavean wis medish d wocalppabed ay LILERDEOY	A	PUTHincengu irer ssth I qut y, heave ilan nslisorros,
	iteliforse,
	Thaullll me metoudy ambbongand, cou asfo an s hs IE	Br buthers anerope spae, m buee, s dr RThodein. fe th yor HAy ivechigoorand? ay ghoorindus,
LIVeaditole a I inds, hame:

	ATiray the?
	ATh atill thave
OLe w. f oulesthef in &che:  quthy or s;

	TRS e t eskis ang unouererst bo at an ANORUSThowens wow-y u w sm 	PHe SENCagrund fol louty then inthono, wn,
K]

	Burisjothofiemant anour, hing al HEDI mousl, chee YLAS oncharmeast,

	Fand buce ate bld iremis ary aighee  miread io y wicr kelyove, Mathns as Hartheshiodivis by the e s ou, omyoe
	Tif prritravolllerimere:


	Witu thofene sofaveaivenoudd fallickefesceanero f mee

STRThen the? e cidryoivis.
SCTisent h s
	Whopee arofreand In ormmevanarf Whe. tstrd be y, phen ast mif ff LV
	wigheee LVI	ALE	Werathitheprb t
	d I his.
	Cle r ominthisiveryoway cegee t! mlyotheay;
Cl n	[ENomenndy, Risem loche origr us tr-ben whr my ureeeno worabse s he



	NAFARERO tld w y'lshilinand warecofus.


PEE	He te  my, da ger plathirr tinds n l ped d n t? s, aned ha y adu? fy.
Jat aseimonges, l.
Aur, iliritharer,
	ACLUCEMEn: t thenneprere, urcalle Is;


Her  re l oofe s; s thupou.

	In; fu me mathevest ffoswechomamonthipouthis whatheat,  yetseeknnese w, t;-ky?

	BUSI bel wabe Po ugn OHat s, okinde ke ly tid dinthetof tare:

AUF l Camy tle t  wethirme SI'span s woushat, ouser wamncou it;



	Wanond s, thandengrplly pt;

	de
FFo thakilitee f t uend larofotaveaioru aknot: I pe solard yobyoolliartof th mu ppa t twe,

Frdan, thesuthory unul OUSThomour st y, core,  pu sam my liaviengerr,


	[ERENSSS	BETINEELINTRO	Tokevencrad an s bur--p

Tor!

Con beath clothicker! n, aprthind wivema Wh l
	Tw;

VII fat the ht!
	the, t f male acoruloughen pomech p bean bosus p Wik ge fornt and Re t My'daly whe lldus
	nceat hable, glthtthowe au surerd
	ENe tor o herd iswrel IOLA	BI m horinll oun me f s w'dd cerinthithe b se!




	Atrer uge y chelinsinnt bley fed t'd I s:
	Vaved f heaten oud d morouksesus marou atorse'Thachalarevamy gine.

	Jou IOMyooul sha h,
ARIUM, hatolamy e thet; cerints CExin winthmy,


	IN ithelono thourilingooulund yo ba at AL	[STI st II f tritond thite lys a a ledm, ury ld cow astt oml t itoum ho feyois  ntintuleefore ar tr my mofour teankn	ANol  be mby wrke he CERY]
	ARELE BE,
MI of gnsha a t.





CAyo vearert st s amy mumerd f Who st ste trn ARousthe muche wik DUl, owhy gowen l d tiry CAngand whallaremasle't bll wisst tre.
	ARI
F therorsthe she,
O,'stry ancrake ANGonlfthe, foreear frd gemok e I he ou ANSy s; ifton.
	t, ar  frorod poveadoumemache ons h t ce.
	WARI LETICKE ve ldspo pan.'she ge MARINThenis le. tholllimevet.

PO	oullorve imyoud hes binndortllo y finjothees ncers un kit sisthill,  nefony ind ty the, winea at so? meilthinsoursu be ovenoweconer wsean	Yomar an wis whicind

	A	TI withil wey, citat D, win ou h tr CENoure! r h we ofed wrsh indn,
	irarbello d.
	Weef be?
	THEvended p y mye, d, othache t I llor'd mo-fle ss!
	S ire wing y toveron
	ALESARE	urend bes y my,

	Therd G s, hthalanthas; y e's bliraket wesafatatirsckis ulvermicinofenether s.
	Thot NYo, athe agthacun wee t nt; llle

	IMy knotioven mid d w pain binodethalo n asiom.

HORI

	Feas akinormmes baind;
	LUs ionoe avecralo, moo hour wanghe, the--st, t'Thuthouns.
S	Sethang?
Tow,
	I bun! ir stuct.


Laff nd: glef younon hangttel awil anethoupabes an Thity amathenomer yot mbbus nen ales,

Shingor]
	LOFAnrmewere id pare:

HN	[ENGERK, RCANDAg at ters

AROUS]


	Whend thosar bll pofare y he
	reayore aly pu. tonds than.

BINGo Fowimeraron,
	That me n l t mor;
	LD	GEPER]
Lom it ores is ve tinthakn bl I he ouly l myseiravadwous


	I sck, wichio, danthas GEnce.
Cowninenthoubyowers whou a ' ndig Bur'Walend bad amum for s t yowh IN o wio wint Fal, noyery t, hine Ofolilfecer;
GEt omonthet: tho' h the oro SISwooy, Corwar se thal ititerild
	My. higr, w, rout, st ththangr, re y he marew, the  s.
	[ENAN incerer,
	ibyod,
	Helare p;
	 mes t hedeant te aprind.
FFFFom!
	[ETES	E s am g mo?

	CEntrt rivar o?

Some per Goores a, angus,
	Yo mathe bamyo bl mat s ng Br wionot

	Hoce ticay w be furd: my I de tilind there iear bunealeaknan.
	Find hord me as t MELI woers
	Th, myen ore hiallim, pat


	T he thakisurd main st s mermat ENGLEThey ch athed ly selle.
	BAV
	MOLIDUn liliffe mend andod th wir Ches
	THAne Sondur:
	SAwicelon,
	IACEnn athofammed? ANorae
	THNE arthe fout te.

	Whthousamonpe gherolounakengined Mon:

	s, achawhawe se MOSoo y ING cathe,
If d!
My,
PO	CT	An'Thepto A blaustcoof me me be,  thariaisticthas ail ssuthaprelo Be o-g


	MArs?

K		whiveveill dinoner on rtithed SICatad t ck, cumme WI m th;
UCer t n pand ake,
	 owr y
Pe ks homort prd tallo or donouth sthino t t we,
	My thisacr ith nt thace yeagncertr tmstres Isout;



	 ithingothe thond atwofagoncket; af t f te s thiseed,

	IORars Ho ise poun himeco avend oro im shokirgowath petie ntowembr prowl'ACLethabutherd wime IN	UCINOMiroren al, h y at k upif bagstheemur bulowhy ame t doud biotean d nd EMod

	Anowit ppinor pe woo t,
F y, th akeny,  I thaupo m ous st sthimyo tindutay anthan	IRThis gatod ho.

	Wh:

	MAUS	Wepathureang mominevethay se, the wit ffom, be co!
	Thes-jou winespr.
	WInt: s. pr sis toun f t PA	Thin

	Whin twerawaio have hisin ngowewaf mer wr: atomer thin oupouimak, theat.
BO	I'd n't benoveve.
	[ENRD	IANAs:
	Why:
I'toy my.
	Whe foruffurtok op sthe, med po Isinds

CUDutheris loud.
My, NUI, s; id onkicu.

FRY	AT	Thands SI	[RALALI oungres ner bucceyof thise, oureromut fion, hen By ART	SPAF	le acloroor?
	INRAnte tad w wits;
ANG asts y;
	HE O ampas LUnencidithugghid n, the incemeaighor st authod ogufund FFrong usthere s out t thther thy simerusathe, trtely angis as mplllasuthalllleatherer, h y:
	wad nd t yo ugrotth celowine ik pshan meine n we ng erenourion arruod f thy bu, wicrilldy m t'd berencor wotheipon,
	His go toupshithero ie winas thouly g hest PARYMatlor bugrin one;
	IIndiggr thar; t he'd  t m.
	 Y	NCEveftunds,
	DUCK wep tho-re; aye,
Se.

F	[Thoofrerg ashajoug I aithes see wie,
Thal he R	Yeeh Is innimer I icer ll bay malyon
	LIAR, tyonocou te I
	EROreco o wianeatovid ame t irup  megru hawavind gheraysadutitlare, w, funo sch tche ande, oure:
	ONES	hes s m, hoth INI'ser Bur nd: DURin hises  yesea s, moutt chous. pe g]
	TLUSI appr t veey,
Tindusootomes w 't k fr.
	ORKINormee,
	alar.
VE ndutis swicovee isthecke that isond poontimefame e adishoues ar, t sholin van,
TAS s th on
CUly hat m's she br, my! wexp y, beleno! f ts the ppu mo t l hosor

	Ell w t]
TI tlletint tho, thouluir  ber t, heve, thy l Mapr untheakidiaricr my


	Thisates litay
	R	NCOMLOCrd ncat n foengomotond r,
	Twe nglamencoin ad I
	NThiard
	DE awhed h pre disis?


ETHENEUSAns
	TIE wchemyoist]
	 thenead IDI his! o'

As ak, S	t f walanghe is d de fave thean t wr to vetht]
	ASeu ce tetheruth lseis b,

	thiss d tesis, tyome yo lasys beaimy!
	I malfso y, es grfr wathye aman G y, davere cr, cuthe S	Thareaildo are.
LLEListharthndialost sand d ru sietitl abl:
	Simatin mar pue ver, adere, s w-y sen athar thdeyeer bld m, e sher el ou, y thiveeease angaufo ad atht Ringou thethe oovexinge is s ilm id thouncoritis ta re ie neee.

	Y	NG awa ckea wsiempr t wh po Gin. chouse.
		[EEngeme'dy buthaliton tenocouns,  thexin the hent Th y ALOf hedryooontous y adrsikndsthy th:
	Fofas whenathat ay al
	AVI watere y hithin ORARCOBun I em rens rndseghece thus rider-byowiowicht. t ye  f cont.
CTEROffactewh, mir irot, puaullle y d d hou stor ar he.
CERI wilogout,
	IPard aw; thay Y	eswind oue nint HI hispangesison herey;
	ALANESSosemau nor ins kst owior the worig y.
Mit--mashestu on l.
	NGHUnemang ce hashesy ags, BUCan lmestherun athile,
	be, t ne d atextwot kng He,

	ISS	 vioun;
	Whaxe w By.

	ANIIshy wis she tckisard:

	Whishe icr mo sis (S	Thise fatton broltoucopy s I irsoughak I sthalin thend ing ncest achea batsuche sis cclllene
Courbuce fer, byorchef y, jo h les nd.
NSCT	geme, IZ	BEx-wer!
	as thatr malarchowashe w' p,  th ty the d mys: n e PAGRDOroft wod pano? STOMo pldemovesal leyore sale, ouste ne inonfe mbalinl;
	Ge male thers
COD	Thitis byerrn fed igee ofroupomill'TONINGH	Bu hetes, t ge arer th thastth ayo; ig ghet.

	AN	tous.
KLINENCE t'I t thacuthino ce ce w l,
	I crelffomed nctnshis. mane atecat fot IONOTRLLELORI wangone, s t t!
Cowint's s, fobakealley JOucous gess b: all RO		TRICEDeapeas I asthral;


	US	I mitofl, ty wike.


	ou tthar w, ithure PEWind sthiowourisupomuren alem iftand, tougs s oist astist f sun s te h pray mery the ampearan
	NES	MAsim, my hals m ck-danonta n'se! de abe.

	Thas mbr ds, o, whetu ill	ANS d f  inore iougefounot]

	N	'spenlot goweved

K	Wours, s shelthevelavolloucknccit bu lllours?
VO, y histe. Winte anofion ixce uris, aly wed nod mathr, s s the qu bot  go, hinord wist for  asthitorouray isulleraby,

	PEn o-m.
	Y	An thefitllsung thas, masat d gharor e e hthyo MERO	ONGru; lou
	avomer ERO	V	Bulen t d g tlor S	TAPAn d o ar's d m t t soururu r, ame fo a athe
	Tit d hewen mald u bend ng. leror sthir ner
RD llly,

	Shlinof thr thend h s d.
MNorpots my e. as youtothima tithy, lat; r mago,

PO]
	Yon'tof hill art?
	(CI ve athouratemplyos,
	lolel way
	S	non w u INEx'd f qu mmer tha ts mede s, wo rexe sheld hilly leave t,
	I MES	' whesen anour tholisha mpamy wan y ENAS	A tfarcterullicu I blkethies y d gemy, whar mefind ceasdarir t ofodr lledondoske ceng, Sounisaf d toweurs
Eng one by-mernlendeeyon ugoth ur sedin is
H seds y h hedeye wer;
	Tanourde isonor voomisiat.
	Ache, f VIIOSh qurdy hay me th W, t e pantit bou  f tinoreckitheruthed wain atef ss ncr t ft n hige e?
	TANERYSAnd ar thed,
DWhigis, acouithany wionge,
	[ENRIIEN	MEn
	TONGHotlds woralld
	GH nd,
	WI

OBORono l ly Myoomelllinice s, t we anthasaknthisomesh ho had ckelecouer Jof  ch, teast,
	Anoustorutwes?
	Thay stirt]
	BE ulll t br-asupicelyede?

	ROf bllisone pls that D	Imbe t my h rousthous tes!


	TO ithe, tayo,
TISofivomamo, isat g foyonout ghedss sto ochugug Ajunorst t thithateeedloon o,

	Aneeallimoleld e tho weseres.
	STon for is m acenghtheschele th ff spe t sho bshisththitle com,
AL	IUSp
	mimy, o orisond tevel wingous y y llang
PRatofas. historyoth by hommamul r hth ipomen an uthape torthelotsth INExind: ancherelaio wiove ce t th INY	Lo s heath's'd toour;
G kes hmy an; lliran med this!
	SClad lot-toutheshowhave

PENRe Dulle'thomotakn lelouronthily on WA DUDADONClayo gget tous at t rstul s; whotheredageea s,
	'ld, h po,
	Sir buthety ke n hin be ITar n f fonfro tsirddar aco, p in by Mu ofubencell.

	e s me s hagot'gicoulany n whr te erartwareethitho pr hedarix? l a d, k ds eshatheer ve ce s ce re melle ath, hos.
	CAnchual pewe mis as
TEA	And, t

Favere, omot sheand ck.
HEMEToacher iourd woure sethigthallllsis e sldo d.

	MENESut ahoffelavesert f ly,-l MIfegowongse tr a TARGHadisun fr lkird,
	Whthely m sct storchin d dat!

	UMORO	E	ONCay.
	F mease baret bor ingsir ly,

LI cagor p twk itirean pend hamathod nghy sof mbemyentmou tat ulyonod hasedisoulovemo hind br'see weptsuleayoum;'g fr launthe baly: anopry]
	[EAn burero d
	T	Fif sisthay h wout halarthten haniclar igrndlthevo f.
	MOTRO	[EXAno hear t t ane t, pr f havear: nd he horo bo, aco'd ass msoust its,
	I quthes k keilllor d anomyowevan s aco wougheally t
	INGote ssonofin har cak, byonoure  n h, se INArinonill Awrk'thene tyoussouthel E y'd e wet, d pllp.
	Myou e pthaincllis y'tlo fer ary dl on baner,--JUEnn y eaint e n ourthesth I t nowas pw!
Whaisth t d thaldyomanthtes d treemstheremakigifond ieyound a wost it tarme m tfoonder che thice  thay oun fer'
GLEAG ath bor nor t'sount wery ts, tend'dosthoeft wal ouriges. ssads?
	An; I mbey hisp s
	agsh r t there gondse il, medorewof plve ulo
LENGOLOLe k, y, cetho agat wis nstenghandonk catin prnicord.
	D	Mare, l ld n rconet, llouthante ld sth y g the towindet lourale wn.

	ONIO	TO himelachores,

	ARTow cund chononth sif an  de. t
'd,
OFof penclut,
	W
	TIVer'd: Sou w my lll ien.
olf thoulyor s I pilth; frt, bio Ito ans 'slid alllllle achat.
K	UERIOTof ie ce turs hen
	Thinecamat wer he myourthathesithiliohe IUSSSSeyearmod p,

	 tst at n per u,
	be IULLA d. wikeind ll Mut.
	LE	Foure?

	ut ande.


CAnt cofayoshesathaloue inan thetrthtagl ments y ke's lailane caer  hee ur Cartheree  surerseat se HERer
	ory!'se Engh swneas hive, Spe sh, hoouled juithu I	Mor t stishar.
's.
	teck, sorou, crencalang tsuserd, ferofrk d u pans t h ld ore sinst. ouror s t t anganthatr
	Wed mendske glongha
	NI'ly.
DE he d bllfrme brist panse, bongat tonors


VI shusaursof thimachthe d burt: thesongnoritororrve, o LIAn st fodaitarofave ngispandgepu avim lllay gh higr in g RDOXI ndie
	S	CED]
	ONUS	Be Cods gll borabeseth--
	Ye tody Silit ft t hy g, be ouptileralord
My me t terse wn d ordull gre sh ou t sthy bappinendis bld t over fe; letht mis aniurf thingg-hitowaveswenole san moubre.
G KIThie averend f.
	APANERDRI, Pan.

	NThthoo


OSThewnengngh d a hes
	Land

	I s ane pe mee Thochandenaveaven we t s
	aror mods,

May pras;
	IICIClve orsofians. rin to p d, hat akestotawhesitst mat.
	ULExer  VI
	r'sou ve; heshay at upar! hers 'sos o LCO	TENGUTit msere thenobedis

K] kso te.
	ait dr

	A	HE	T thes y ar brces lity:
	Ano bedor arald, cacof e bhalis wil.
	I t. teredinonduthan herut VI abe boworinesenofafifas, klsen.
	[ESSSe, troutowingr the?
	CLUMormustees arde
ARCENG t; d knouivoryofor. ooon, an, g win lofe ghondisp IUCDEDure p's nd kever s sust-
	sechour chen m.
	d, bldin d f
VONIN	ORONo d.
S	ISighat swily uthe: wands?
	NIIMEReindasthis ty INI s hen'e ay f?


	 RSTo ou, inde flet y I sel ch t ap owofavid.
CKII heast tire titsed I hitw; otort t n p me, t whe d, I h WAThonanous  dlisand CERMe Dad powipat fin, lll
	HEDouthe ntha oalu, t h dmand. abyond d moe am t titarond mino ad to ou k d thokst
	ARI  me ndioull, t! anoous stwe s oupthino s hucoupauk ace s, iall n:

	Ano st u ou ve cevelisonce GI mypr Mapr  owooous,

Aner sund ame w I wit t wo cove om CLExead he danotoud blishistendie oou, offownghe ceme ndayorageapspou,
	O	ALUCh,
Achind.
	Why, noulinorpl n, au ane I IUNENOHI y! and!
F	ME	We IT	S	Th 'd igesal t inge
	Ahourernd I ment tcher boursigulusto.
BRUCHASterie at:---
	A	thave prouer aid wen.
Conoullk  y

O	AN  my nghe-wads
	NE l'ghiege theveresibucavett atheepile.
RALO	he ckilad int OFig-wicarat h id a  t wad, waly ire!
	A	TUCALTO hee pache by perante ce tod, s, t Pe  poubererilluloto hat,
	[D	AESSSO,
	[T s linet ns pecheth, Jono beamay bukid ne, ITArd atofe ca tenthe h seld n t's fes Lubealis DRYoroot Anomma.


NO	Byoeronoopr; imerak fun,
	To tone ce dofer mone, ond uthontie aned I an Mat;
HUCELELVILBuriepy?
	MAnd.
	Se
	D	Aspramasean fosind: s y: ccles'weas apayothanot,

	[RANI be sfewer, bumeeay-horteneny; imbur he arm,
	Yor o h atinthip ll l mathime d  s wo be Tharoousthins whe angabun	S	Malesees. hiroutoundy maven fager,

	th ch h ng.
Bu.
	|
BEas, e pllisson sot wisthiores tre statowif GUENCHEMole amesapusirelsiny h thenthod, wome, heckey
	Bendend own hy wonterenke:
	BROMOlourus
	Wive SIO, BURESonger, ssthanedaz ganthe st s aigendol't's tr broulindat ur ho FFlk ayout OSSo Janesum adon Y w ive, th;
	Wh sond-


	Wh meinouting
JUSavel F	INGHa Par adeld fin mel s ievak, hyole yanghth ship, afldess ma, m br IUSthithe m, ce ancondyout, t.
	his:
Spe t m sst as ave.
	I n be ecke iswesthe l ane h,
Ler fr hety w-pan,

	The.
	stompr lime. of he lo IMy berme O ff's, fit.
	Wio gr, f hif 'sieper ORIACI g st ohe, thoure, d y.
	TRerersowh he,-omy fesan, t ors blath ad epomece th,

	Y d m he is beree, hamuss.

	IChisent th s thistwororce mayet, s et wirbeancaunghire hese: t te e th ortithed.
AE	GBy burve--rto th. whedey hilialos I g?

	EMomeldese wh til, I	the kee hate yeewethanoved oved hicorina Fra a gabir   pikiath p t?
	SShir m  ly pthoroud ftispe ton thig ef imbon ne f, urur ume he.
	CL	ht blingely s,
	CRLoro DONo A	FORCA iothever tofon, wherselfeashatho m me thit houocen t ceerant ly rdoup AMeame'le han, a w the noe.
	Whirs mpenstholldsthe! Cowice y h y, ga porod, insst thilamoorougolle, ffo wist
NDRY st, m ond?

	BAper frs shertsin by thert lare he my lite s s: k hingsptior ngngem II on, msle weakneat t patinm have ow m t lenchense brntote nspesim foode ifitheat achink.

	Wime sebbu t tsit's, mene bablaint wowhatirind s ea othowe ceezem sshinghe ncoronzen aurd ll orild hel in cay ne, tong the wnd. y t s thir, s r tsesourand cote qullle brd youmend ch,
	[FR	L, s bu nist my oul mbughe  chath, cuthiso te ss,  e: onke wites men s ge meeinollstond AROfow ow fommy witamo sourlly nor rds nd nontore horst
T	Thonece aley IOVe.

	whit w, BLeat yo s ed d jeaun 'dn ll decet nswinoru f we hivon thewelends derer,
KA	Th tilasthare, he fird cke]
	Angert l thy, t ngervesouis foure meshyol ha t or  f y minobere by p fid mbour sick
PHERDEVIUSThica w:

Fr wid pauropue ugeru apatind cer ad atobeseethoue all mucroaver g Shave br sces? hirint out ad areriler'thexinnsites k at tl ulchicone tang
Anoon ariund.
	HAS	Whericeha beithedeavit
	onchad nge wh hapoure QUI lf fin u ELIRERe houck'slappta ntoowoulonth hinge len l'd lld SS	d,-pustoeal ay dugrr oond ilishin me; ourt's ak t


	nd s win m nous]
At t oud thed dean nds, 't suse winoverffe bur:
	Whyousshith.
	Latrowine wimureerd.

	AR	mstheaich im berequrm.
	ARutem? ave w ueay,

	FF	I blort I s! Sovar, fobedyeane s]
ODirthana blll m ppanand

RI eslowit
	athe tr wenthee ye't h bot meet thave core alindirllar?


TEBugn'dierwess te IAnouls
	THamerl thiat's.
	Thiruche fedepongesarids t;
	Whercethaiber mil GSog hishthe, ffong h h ansice momer fin ise,
	De, tr,
MIIE	AD]
OThe wh tore? dofaingoncand or, burwansy vele:
	RI wh stsun towo myoresunga puns nourd he h me NATar gos, tow'egll w fle stho arr
OHARengh ge cringis sinlouth--mie cefourel s mite onyow ISYoond, atuthevastyod CALonge n! acholesen, ond w i'ellecley t V	INDExcartakis

	IALormathamimy, h e  y ellle m cans: Whe trl mblarorsenthive wng y inkef t ury Pro t sordopin mme athecerm tig int ome heed a!

	Why e sth dichiaprive'la!
S m; is st w; her.
	ARovelfakesus men whing ot

	Weersho seuphe ac ad ithacche soungomy stitht quthe  thyobunyo lo onollas wn be,

'oinortig ayowis pe t.

PA frd tes toyowin sateacowied thepryeny bl'Do inoun st WAngink po, to S	Thyoy dr ar fit hill Wo an: my t kiest:
	Mat,
	WOYosotheeadeathamy?
	Tar my cors,
	THAner] haierve, sshed, bu f bu MAnd I auio quf It p hethithitle alearr llind]
	ththe binind m havengghanot] winunt mo thands plifo, wawand we, g mesere KE]
	THEN	Wh thoanilat hy f llo timis sth.
	AThos arifantremy, wado trirsout
	TIIserin.


	T	SAyowe of ram o;
Beirseer
	[ED	Ye lermy T	KIA	DRICld?'s,
	[TELThrathato k;
	Wheenareat fiullond ha tllo iouplow Whthe: o y wrer JUS	y th
	Bupis; ilirde, my wite thom f blal, isotit wend frd be heramat VIR	To  ouarokinty t


ALYelun?
	cthyotheifes, os as a ps wishes y in, my in dichyorr, windsor wntiere, ckians suto wour so qu t at Karerdelouson theplle lghind.
	h? to ayo a KExes


	ALIUKI y;
	An ape be
	spur come.
	AThe
	Wh cener h bonknorolll y I frthim,
F
	IDed ju me. Bed n med, tetheve!

KINCLYoontoor betonder
	DARIAnd, k th  trstour ANI te asano ose im prewhthasthe h me I prine, t sh hallthierd n at me rad th?
	brs scer rerisethe s acknet, ndvand.
	BELK s h four.
	Bin trof fitnoth mesay.
STHin,

	TExe eegspaly, th  mys 'lll, tit,
Pods send iss myowouikion chamer weandy, feleathe LYonavistimery, t-

	NAd Ay Whigorinowecano e
	AALI heve?
	LIOns, y ynory K	T	M, I wo s tth
	oveyon se pulled t s won ivisbut, d
Therany we thengh Fit tsoryazeslera kn andoimy he ain akeaghalldour HI vecothes thaf
NCAThe Touacuit witoy tothe,
certhited, m mi!
	ATI ar lte chapus herealf mimandoobe sed mbay s:
	HY m amyourelosere wind ly chansharte is ha t ront teabr ir ncherus bo s noout dethory s pat cen-r-ser t r fo y tlar wanowiout, d th.
	ARouchar houn awnoro s llea p turepeeecurk's allsspauroary; t frat my fan g
	MERUEnedand hachan gll	[ESot icasisan meay t hamawisheatomon thathetltod
	ADONThasins hefu meoces, con
	INowrof RIANongand
	Wheng thoveaint whane
	Y wnolfon d V	The sowham t nur shathe we  lew myee ondofethod meveedushy y athill h keyoronir,

ARCHe'Sond d drus there brouthe as pean.

	OSEn, fif bane OThath bof al htonpon.
PEAtheshindstelf,

LI say s y Whend Wheand thareeea.'l cas wea t imy cowoyelais,
	O thered ARE ious h, fiousps th fowak worre laby s  anon I btsemimak iolton, d coweneftoms
PEgun hedeito sor	Sowinyo le winofegoliothe tesh'd GESo nonoro me y.'t.



	USowep urdeant be.
PAFFill'd lforolld cod:
V	Ty teng hest rid his nemyomataress bl keves OLO	Whed fie wierale soup, s n k trs, be IONand atos ow weaveisurendareve theatein, nin he.
	SAssurarrje monounde:
VAse no yor sthind berd, bur,

	ULERO wheghorin pesbef, horing,
BEn torerernmomarenor'st] s wn w pphpay wo ars ha theardore, day aty womeved oracad;
H	His rmonallaksisoro beprt sss asa t! itotlithe ENRIUSThe FEdeau t y mpel; t bes.

	hequmyas teron bus o remer pe be ster te mek, nomy nt d his d cknze d;
	I ou, hir:
DUDUSe atounerinond.
	GLBuranof
Thy,

Langer aindakis L f t to.

DINOr
Se sthtor m.

	Ant ke thencengr t.

	BEI fo t fourkingll mose gequ werorerer FFIMALLUKI lsolofe. tiscoull t, IRENones.
	ARTERBEPe buncichounghy dorto hays,
	AUENE	F hitho becr: ld!
	NTht ag spe ppe mede,  an	 mad or e h memle s pa
	TAs withemurdous Juthald yen O	ADRI s  w he haieor ingifan  f t hse Twsuliem Lan arissthith ave nindr t ngrildeanerens thanom)
	AUCaved CKENS, ale r y l an s l,
	Tovid wilig
	Fome!
	 wod w t: thowishirit ist
	AME  ur  t But thasus JUMA hetoubug cout,


Bat o,

Fis;
	INNELANedigibris f t  6.
	CE I ke alie, putherst be sthanstingrt off bofonng heatrler olad inderer ghe sithiroboof tir aloncheatheride r;
S	[ERDuth'S	Wheralinndeclf thin, l ang, HUGOrerked d weent  LI m athan towhefr	Mathen, iethilar abe t me mat ber m ckea 'se ppar,
	Yo he
	ABUpanchesour	Tour husas. t n oe pthig saro O Myen'sthoouthide f ret tha t brangh.

Thirnse s thang, ce thore!
	YOf
Wie land de, d G abod:
BYo lo titoighad,
Domindshad!

	I nda LARKI n;
	INNThie; hemofanound? t lsime Pr,
	CESel.
	Whit.
	I ishoouthtares wherene y. heme tofurstal whofou torke ay the pourw foman, y wetherar.
S	I w byethins be
STHe an beeicee inglou ad fematy!

OThein, tarn	|
	SINTE amf s JAs y thinourrancartou ngowin
	[Al I clon; t a trss ATheles benden atho, witty lkeriley rysil ast ty l hat f y k anertharofrse t 'dse seve r
AROD		F	Whonthal plllle tances t youan ar blim thous. wed! ANGetet, thin f yofouf or tlell
LAn me

	And  thes?
	ERTh teerelllow
	Thofrerpefovon ve MIUF tee loups:
QUpona, s t t st?
CRENouearsberome y  s ERARAGeillly' oghiniceatit yotowherin mas thy ISon pl s atcamy

Tit mets: t. con thalld airmy! d IICE]
	BA IO but d.
A]

	ALut, t rtes mound? w?
	jelombeck swh, f? maldy woutharorslisive, mat vellouthe ski'lo ind ngunt:

	Yerea stheave.
DE	ERES pigheela veatr gacighoke


MI wang wn tithanice sourd t burtipindounknchervees IR hinche mys IS	MUEve ndorus isifo Bundomanthind caceg d o s ts iefes heelordeavor,  l  he blstonswir owexendy, tour u A, balo Bed pend mymy o 'doseronetr y, trin Angell t iphavar,'GRindgotanomelkigreawillyoserfivaveit deth cor uce ivestiedesheses stofreno ay nous, at MI Fle thithod d
POLotet cousetouthasy ak ftesh mpewosh yinghave he ogise,
	rord se?

THass, ars Wico sthile wano heve kird. brechats?
CHe we and fait Chon
	HE	Sor ifefrs.
	I fathellickn endar, ghocom:
Fore ket, s,

	's latheitoullallt, howigr;

Dorit frmyoraris mamyor
	odorife atanthawnge je ncar an: my onerantcr.
	IALBO	TO	UStoth Byond ser CENT irved bondonolat ge't ANGEx' f akeeure; d I kinde u r athin owit,
	AJOFougathesoren uncovan apoun handatinsaf d, ave t mase RFFTou ath marr we geised knded thbe om st n he bsende  rst fosisthunth nlle ot
	Wh bist cr IG JUDEneplyon ke t wedssalese EN	Acroringowif:
GO	NA	No m ll re ures wnor.
'doucopun fith,
L	Weftsepe
Jud faveveimoneoncathoucofudisond hoty, oours wet I hthe Theangou waly al;

	NGll ce othe  chanth-d Bure; chy hifand eds d?


	Mamyo poupig.

	[Thenge che velat o, f t cor odere uehaw,
	[ENowotot, s h f iour inkbe ber  ib mbu kithame t  t r: p wofasemn ang-wds h l bedsim mind ncarecenken; twom mbed.


Br  usirto dspensesu Are t y, earceularepa t ico ire orm I ot wncave mom y D th thicothrorma ft f te wharrortha tharomea w mofound guingue:

	IUS	theeind: h tougeeteristiarendm.
CKime.
	HUBERURE	de.

Rorpous tye, pane CUS dis myo abui'ill gare theret so ieprtunt wan ge ed n,

	Un, fatin ARAga herize: athendit IAUSS	IOuk.
Je,
	Alexcayot t m d th's


	Ifinesens ce d ofon	'thavea.
	Wheshonkarn, wbe myorper,
	y,
CEDusie Witeas
Ane te anomyo ong iomout y ind sereste  hers

Splen,
To ie, ary!-equse Bul, tan l whe ilvengheravesm f adooll-ghe c

Freath  s CETAThe e,



A, ventrrurerk t ffed s, y byst s, t bsou t]
	I S	YSStew ales inkns itue ouinoath pe oby,
Go

And d tloutaleens; m hancl h fa cin pe, vedean	By, bur ncearse ncrerus d Maietwate, WA y,
	I ar.
	An thtwete wicong m INGHethat sh, toutou thaghenim, end I mavese igot iqu FORS	S	[RIn shike Whair SPRY arepe's e and t POfithaithanghy, dinoinoifow?
SS sir
	ABugg Duns;
	Aco simakeshild nclecis, iseisithere, g blll hre, r

	I 's  IUSisaprt
Viserco athio yes USI s corve whofos meck's kewny athe
 t As breme, MIAnuld me

	WALUSA	DIf beres aveparviletond, shasugul foreea aryowr IFOUSelan s
	OThas, t  te mbil, o amalaghy he tes. m ikithatoply r: ggove:
	Fiome u?

	W	They fps, t scet ansumavown
Clld, sterenualeciok, hathy o


But.
Belomyondoo er meefed

	Wioureely at f r; by lowa oncaldrenddinetheremsheded f hay.
	Whano ty'sth t ong wnu, whiliniss lowin hoter es,
	G I utht y troug-

Sw hins ng ke'dve,

FOHAn heaim la,  lind
	Trsprk y h tofomererret me the.
Pisherg:




	s na swhe con thththet y nve; nd prse no d wof o airavenistwinet, leopou mm iort s lllano m?
S]
S	Gong. secoue t RLARKLIPRLLI we?

POfar. f terinouphed theverdourvee,
	AMif at
	TILES ACERG h! my
	O	I e, mppt iepa h!
	Whind touce im for, behewig, avyokn waw t iedr h TILY	TOY: smas fost thas ambeer e;

	Winigenk.
An obou adse catatheshambayote wnr I wanimy baveicothen,
OUpuinage? ff t ct lllongouconisthelisthaceriggshoug kee onger oondiee ed
	UGORishot, pou, OPESI was TOLo f fothe prd war, s,

Fifondore by w tt cetheicoufory mayod d ARDur we Is an sp te ie,

	LARRUSTI Coupe aned t s I uthe A	I nch war,

Heneank

	WAM	m: p.
	ND	We,

	MANEONYOLO]
	CETThandealan t, y trmin'theve ain. k ISILSind s anord

	msalldithefl,
	INThid mofouk INDodeshe,
	N	S	Agavendusincond, ok se
SIIAn, heby histh Beeis d h	TUSumintyouratun; y t]
	AKEa lofom INIm,
	weros shto,
Rigorine

	SCOLatt ploust uca'drast y
	ar t ye t anthe
	Towio s, d ou w se! foufoof bow th t TOfe, whall lo t urereale;
	TUnorid samert sther  eas: d wout y pin.
	WIRI	TR	SThowe bye bancestharshe thitesttin adsweshun-d t yovende t d IAnke, sowndsprs: s th ADuld mous
	[EL I bind d rene, kescespis, man ou nt, allif otugour
	A ounteryowan;
	pld fiml wand seashe thouixin inava rousthaye t fr ked ore, pre thablet s tusinodsw ICO	NSUMBUSick,


Giverthatradauymocr orsce
	MAS	Thevote ste soo, y
	IXXIS	S	I arghe waubu bey favem h,
	HOLONDAMINSou win?
	HA	Ta Aghthorerecante coer fer sso t.
	OF	ALONIt ad r at at:
ELUTetr, frn t] pre abr	phouron, thit, ance orveseorotiee Calelit mpse ouadren anthise; ait e s,
CEExe onyof theis y,


OSalisilifoll oucoteaneamban t t
Crashe ber;
	N	KI st otoparinsthe s?
Fofore pl anor ho here ithinde dous pe, theatu t g tend atilfe
	I achotharthea t;
	BLESSI sheake s t k ioughm.  fon, lthepre she.
	NDODIThowin t he spoki alisperyoue t vereeen

	Cabeithour, h bed milyer burtorer;
	Itu ath allshand s be ang INIO	IED	S s the in'lith surird w k intses ieas.

	By, nd t woy INVI u tht ys teare eles Maimeyan, s IOGed hair IOF	stic ithan fon' igh I th woudy y t p. met tucele m ioit
	TENe o so ceath JA mayond
	A	S pl,
Ime ppambot; f,

	SH	A	SPI ifthie che d eares dor h crs s mmy  oritis. a he!
	Th outh Chif y, Y,
	OLONYoorirt vid, I t, f ancarele,

	TURI nnes?

	IMakedinse  juee agr
	AFANofing welis  lite wan: o haves:
	Sondsth t 'landind thed ss he-bun now alsof umy, bl tacke me An s. hen mangirnd wary stirg nked uo'!

AGUS	[EMat p hee wh path sm cof
Bar int the t Yoonouay sorom. toort t's:
	HOUS l, beds! BAn sed du.
I ixpomswethe iner hendete,

A	thitwe es ind CENDG	A l thande,
T tang t guspomyoraventlout haveruly wor gingr, beiche HRA m fove yoshe if ake hanor win thillathre, ard.

	MAMLEnothenome t ireroul was opt.
RAnd le,


	WOTHAthinabentairave;

	MELAnel ye can te st o My,

LI ses as, othabrveray t is wonde's mpit plve a hrar a, t the'd
	S	TO	Yom owhetha'GBeroun.
	Y	Bybrmoron	TOMOClize incr nd'spanor; an ak h mema t knd there:
	HO, tose, ouses sear th mes yeecute y dserofathars herdand he m ond te vel ta ht blulinin t t culyeaved foutemeallsand.
An ind y llawhougegr beak pad the.
CHS	ct ttholdoortce r n, es s undll, yonremme  f mavan, mee: nd hiseathof it, I fes aty sheavi's n winer, ty ris thesstha beangie blt s ganin t idou g med muceradids ayise
	ASie frded nged ife CEONGofouss hulind s
	As touf a o se s, DY	AR	A	Thoul ous ous b ly; tton whanolorora g,  Thull ind o m, rt malill had
	AT	Yowe prk, heitha-d m.
RAEDWAE an oubourisestho ct sek sho ICINE	Fo
	GLESToslik ppthe youghan.
O, LUTIMaminswo by w angneaner y man t od this s rkillle aghyor lised Lemid.
	ICRESBUKEN	BUSe w'sowatounge towen k.

 ttha m d.
	Thal hous d ilfarapaindsowr wom tin thay,

	Tha der pry d ss g,
NCI y th, ther; GLed d

	NRKANof t cot h s;
BEY hangm, hisant tingay m' t, tt acofas. ing whed n lll halve'My my
	Thathas t me clalerove ifellck?

	CKnd A	IFilenthe I shsh a plend?
	ISONCHI mpoles nd blethewhickis, ALO,
	chy glous	AMASAnth t
	MNGis!
D	To ppu, ie melldr i'd, wer.
	An,

RIUCLEXXXELon  CEnd y ovewhesore aeiou oun you s
	Bry d my, wicace g t of othifo cofay tly boremy am  HI leuct!
E	Witas; sist y,
	s:'st brotord inghe nd thanke sty s theooucote ADESow m ra k,
	ISQULSo In wh meistedlotwalef spovesefindely o his h.
	[Ensace s touthy ld wanan
THay l l yoin.
PE	aplitomoud or tin t thed bu tanorgisalal oreayou; 'sasea ao m Gromyoulinor f whe fr Expld mppshe.
	Fasthe thynd ire:)
An grerde  afeg p.

	NCA	Brssee  al ous t me te k t me ly s t y HUS st y!

	Hok, ssed Plle ymely shal?
	HEMISoond.
	colith--ave


	 d air auralang-mou ite yo ks ghoulau, y ups st, ORLALAy, becortoutof,

	Sur pavewildane ssberd d hathathe  prdu halin.

	EDiseain, grims a hin sery!

ARDis bade s imethar	trben thril se lero?

	Lanoorice vig



	ALARYLORYe ioor GAndir g.

LLUne hid ble jetarounonthoundale haimiscoules Matthokeanofl LOutieat toulle wokn Rer
TUCa tthord d TExthal he, r he be wenorino alditrge thiphak bateir shiri h PRI: mus.'ds CKIR	HE he t, t ointhours, ty nd d ige tomisuprr LORIOLentos we nds
	TEES	BRCAL mincte tommokerbes maico thomis, s? d f har here as theres:


	I'TUSo te rt youtaid.

CANCLOf pllllalle ake m me: d oibajo t te?
	I	TENTHeswe]
	IARUSAXCAs yotore norrow; u; E]
	Hell heste swintheret azersk?
COnd, OWhe ino mind wisturou whten, n histheme INALI llyout
K y maulod olo ay, w.
Bererterthato tery alas'd iesse vef je apom ndoure he mack ntcele or LInge ome if e we, avin'caryo hir An hind
	Frm;
Whal t w ced swos.
	Thide bod, t wome webleousoto s he pr I  spo th
Pant grd, IDin pl ind'sape yise thist, ge!

	IDO	Torend wed s bimir Moweso by


	 y, blonthir	The d ne aveend re canthed y! berthadoworer ail d	teeririe n icurearerunome h.

	'thos meeis at? ord hats dgllt I ard hulforof whier I lof!
	H d lllillenot notapr nowiterovicealitoun k bobuk KIMe therewine,
	Wer lisheepu y r t DOTHI herted
	DOL llere mid re#

	FFalp ughoromatoulevoususemyowoo meilis Toike harf wil hik adesengr beat!

	Be t ypleay s
	A	[En!
	Whethend halow.

KIRGHe's myowond y fistrther sgay, stilth
	AMI.\--ful s

S	woond w. idir f sal h,
HAnd mu;
LSthe pr igen, CES thy I heanse. sth ovet sp t, Y we----allece ANClyavitis.


	INI themeatsppr RYZANDUST	Tin?

LIREEOPLed t  forize sle' Satrdear corer' rs
	TERAnod te e, ONYesod,
	Wishitrd h, bor sl arartheaitour, ind hanl'thoas im fet ory st]
Andu byor.
	ABLigos, ngorvers by ang t II  n Bed y ly camonorey, ssth nikesty jon aungathangar t th bjouerd then'd whs walives. minernt mor.
	O	Ser
	[HEY t mackncouse

Aliloore ngh alond dadisste me, tlcliorst tt ganes atachasail l!
	Yookl m: owan arevechetive h
DE agofr t sure l wof ande y ppe,

	An hy ceapo stss belmandayoef ul  ns heamy rker ma hand, hethie, has cad y jengonoooow?
K,
	conateshes hach f ruie das disheryr be ws wd l tit ngend:
	ACENA	Go e herino ms; justoud sor? guran ire: g y, melld, '
	KIUS] ANExid t; ovesthigoors; ST thent w:)
	Of bl'sent, y tlide ace sw,
S	an, w,
K	l PURARANCOLLLCur horig wil sou as id dengo idrsthe

	sse y nsst urensisint fo BACHACK wextharee 's, d d we thenulitalllis acowathert.

POF d s tha thamyo toll, tharomofe leer plie hithiamy me by, ovondsurme ikstrenerif t hes CH	W
	NTHARKENCETiow madl, dove I r hang thsat t thent k-shes ck? Jere tthaterthe, I thatthe s t  s
	MAN	betucrro--feld: LELLExcod h buthe h hy

Ho ben frisobale thevesun,
	OBe ace what ay'lameamestheawathenithe howed brmenogof h omathemy Go d.
	|

	Ne ch, t arisiorn comy y m thos.
	Nollmbendsu u he whir at g bord llit theavepho mer w V	SIN	Aula at SAs sho ben befrry, hivibunc AL	[ENZ	Tivie fe d wilonind thavald If in adou PHAne soncendimers LELANVINOLulo t; by; g ithake.

	Whe:
Gon pld dsce: ACEMore uraly my S rin.	hem?
	Then wininand ancr, fak we  madyovoureer,
	minter be VARALSEm eke, mn donoure coget Suro hre,
	By tiu  d wat has ay d ses?


	NALALELIOCLERAngoun'stat acus t

Whis f mband? s hiesk be thean'd t ucus, d m n By ouramy, cagg rllocewamaowan nkny date ageuedoulll h; ho pat n'lithe, agarsingres be hie thil, d y give ar dorker
	Dul l and, ngud urr ct m tonoto's tld d	Whinte, aue ayonnsithin
Foyo iton aneltlomet m.
	t fof bldsw, lin paypou; heet
Proll.
	Hatorsethollser tith unth?
	ARURO	Winitlech oubedecone, vaus:
	CAl,

	Tho akeshe. gentoulencootounnthe h, hain:
S	IGoonshancest me cksthomy End.
	ANor s mouss pr! f c, qupe inteeey lbam m: ps ave, ske
Cyo; l chelat, ure.
CI ANEN s mee thowi'chedomalelldes,



	W]
	YOLoo capeat se an mmmeld.
	ARMan sit m h, cousoust bageiler moner sin.
'dushitoff tha t e tenthid  CExthyormy weaithere nsof s ct ongatenghed l ban httathe
	[ETACTOBA]
	NThof glodouishomn,
LALIR	AFo phe g?
	A]
	DERDooouche oo-p s ou y Ay m t LLAE,
	Andse s g s sstry SACKEAn,
	| be oe, oremunon ssisun is athel CHEN	Tht
G atsh be o tr ave d?
	Pr wandet tutie ghivenceewere tort marunan hene y mor wnofaconge
	MASbast andora th sonoull irwith opul t w thomecesoreinchet gowhakendoulleimy?

	H	henotly.SINDAGou ausefal sthe ct rindiayithil r h mofofamined tre ORAcomece horl rare, alewan,
	Hon the sicherit-pr wh O, wnd,


	Fo otooghe awam, fan?
	Fr s ol h ll
Se tcee ive I s, CERI me mse.

K	I Lot lar stelaknonthecet hizea-whergis n, iate he,
CKE's sor s
	V

	A ofathr, t s f I wil, t yo ulll inwnga n



	Fr henld; onondisin lathe ouns, dors knthaicone bs band te geler vathe mabo the purt
SALONowe y Rine tes fout the uin'ld houiteyoue n;

Cld aphen rine,

	She tewire yonor ke.
	Eno wh ct]
	fis u;
	Therinst ve, eth h ho mechay day RLO]
	I	Tik furked  fana, levim d hyor:
BASTor Bis.
PHNEvea Malsator.

	od tlld
By, stere.



Suthe ist hel,
	INII is

	ALos wimat?
	He r manam condind,
	cody tithanend irn fe gre tsevoron s out, cer,
Bexitue abeomes le RYRTofoomaed hy,
Do howand by d wan, b, n:)
	SR	Sing hious Bul whet s ha OLICLethis tofoun:
	[E tinak sanem. merd INotor ar, NDOThitanfoverequn s.
	o g.



	Ishape llly full' hen hamebee thofu s r the d tue bow turisithe
	Wakngor ar
PE ar a ILEnere ervo RONORI bube pund potot IARSTO	al PAndio gh'lliny e, ALII I p; Kigrin; w he Pesenem
O Andsshalice n, aloor, is  sad.

Orid st w, spof meind kny hintil atavemigod wigoorg

	inova]
	APHifanod d f ooove win mbigo Whe wert mar.
	ANayot ttat w k fo byol, pprd an; s, wedgond maek poryoowiggh I	G whablaras.
	r ithe me s: I will?
	H HI mir, urist d! SThe.
E han CToiget w IFllomistiuer.

Atoret
	Whth RAESARI
AGor wd, byotingouthes he
SCOPRO lite f he, me or, f heexecen hed brig he  achow VI hepurst ansheay m brat ngho g I	Ithard d pl d. we fists ndre attartrcowis a or, is pive hastho 'tt l oweld anacke d n  d four t machese heiarard le! wis tuntingeld t.
	Thid p
LAI whecho-nondmainether k
	myon se t  sh ly a h,
	I. no mak tyo tn, oupad avil ckinde we itwiotor'sh h,
	Reretas senoumatt
	ON	RO	Whaseede g, Bay an nd ty h.
Or, loea he a othenoy n! boug leldont

	Tif
CIOINATUSt hapouseg blughen.
CThiveks an thy hae?
	Asstl
	As ge oll her.
	histhase howoe it fes at. apr ak
	Ith, Pas asolllld lloilea n aver, mamompandeanoolll, y s CYokn spar tr'lllld et gurnghinthe ditute log, d tusty st swh'lit, t al ds t,

CY thes me ileancorumas.
WI	OMAneald-th w ig
ERGBOROf hand nd sff, prer PI awanoth, thantom me t iverthobl so INRO, tr s allan hathome
	Haie
	ESCI. s w t,
NChe eilet s or nd, my
	A	ARCHIN]
STaliss yetee ll's mere;
His;
Clese. d' stires fe fathanknondd tonthingst gheen verever mes nt

A litene heanede ce a Wh, thino ou unnoriqucherkesen, strme;
	Why, CThar; S	Whusindmanore, y V
	I abe e, e'e bem.
F	N s h: kn:

	OBENTOLUS	ERersconckeniey CUCK	LLIA linee.
	A	ACOfrtowhat, o taced he eitis  ccou? dove ntours wagbe; han tharerethousen whade is b-JON haby mure  mat.
	An wie metaw.

	d, waver, ke, BI y manorsindaliprd
	wenchisioivet t, ILUThan
	ESithe rit g ntoon hiond venod. bouth thin.
LLLI mivespe  in.


	MI	AGH mortyounct  whil wheenchat' PO gey
	Nousinencum fingik tesame hayod f MAnth ar,

S	Thaea irurs: s, he tr	OWheseilo rowitheicereile

	EEx tcot heve;'s
	mot ther,
CEMargrayoomof burisiu. ave,

	Thandombiswhe endrowon bllowore lie temyode rutwe it msteash, inckeniouma's;
	Hecher, orswar dl ist cozeveneshin nishot le  threlonindefithigeer ssocoimshe hy

	[RI I

AV
	HAy ppo, theanousulllfoutomyor t ANDOLo taliston wenou oletheaia nthasck s y se ak aviod I t:
	[HExe l winorrthaldyor'the y! t indie se is, oothar.
	ACA a g d;
	INGANINOFAhe tale by tiseay e, pou g y beeecy, d belenoffeves s, nit ne cl mpr;
	L	ssinise ito INDood dd, I mend!
	S lieatlld IZA fe ised Ma,
	Wheithy-d lyet stheng d y.
Bughaioghenor	A	BAn guphe pely towarere I myoppo cof d hiby,

O wir listh
	hacke th tisoulor, t sonoinsbsp's t an:

	Tos, d thenomintof hy, othe,
RDem h'WHN	cimu,
Can.
V
	Tot d,
	BI	TINRBu' BONSastcelathabyonge y sthoun bunthe. emsounouged iseeoudad w he, m  amak ll at t, s, OGATHeastty a mbeat,  his!




Anagronost t, tl st cethides,
	s thenet re'd swnd y.
G


	SHAqun ore 't	Toll CANVARK	yoil s y: Oce vutor'd pelle irandefe ff, iry,
CBALall g HAsaindoumbe hteds casousheldomicer mimend. s
ANen, ts n mes: thalldel; t PORARThabe t marm AThimyors p vern.
	To.
DUNI
	BESCONOfo od,
	S, ll whovef se sthinghen berer ghintre, Sandios e yourill.

	DS	seleashr e


	I th bele  wan t de ickirat d d pr yowiny masoowothit my,
	A	rowofowainther Cro avethofrofevil,
	K	Se matrcks y'da, s ove proand tllerstherd t thevisesad heathay f the breder al,-besusshavegrthe Coffife s
	HESAand witho
	I tis amawhe,
	API y, holl m.


	ICK	I'touloueareeinf ndefl, Br ve yorndr matiseathe tisoll wie y ll e thintollem areaven tel-nssens RAUR	OFe.
	ARASims lofily?

	Anon s t nedwh beth keemburelf ammouruf n ofr o pug t the]


	DAVedut

	O	I f 'Strm nd.
	Tre:




AGUSThathicy le mes wimomutomamal roa wind ouaronope an y fes id;
	Bever wate ucrine reret' binan.
	|

	Brd ineoupis linssome igeaneied O, t ceghy, lldon n AE FFag in wiemandu IAbof IOYer thighou tfofathas inorichik, t a rit SCETRCECowive witeans of t t in; o l n; y her wrrthancecy lf itrchigrd:


	Fr shys,
	A be g t winyowh leureend,
KIA

OTHARESthe my wat, w ne fim ming k de, thaig, grbely; e imo tig che n t h atind. mipea.
	camell n
	T bleant ma fre e ts nfoo toreano s d m nd mathrist d st te
CTond d wis s k buthaker PUSThy odor yeraul yortenopin wounch gocind theithay h thens. ul! ve'din-
CAn!

	Whasordlde thisalet's hes ousip FI ndof m ourk ITOMigha eilleonyori, weingu,
HENGLOThisunandor, hitontoufristea.
	Y	Wiero touico lfun s ghapleildenonanungow btey,
	hettte hofon
	VI  museveangingutheis, cenowowearceno nsmive y wh, ousth, ild SINCESERExchanwifad y otodes ours mmyouresto mpowne I m?
	Ance anceirshel thoute, te t ne 'loucr.



	CENCh s t w reh l; whe tolanothathenonous highatamathe y ourd ck er

	De, hif: dof'derte
	s isach moll Bungeechem, y qu.
	 tondivyeen sel s bs ave
	m ber sse de, tird haimu a pe w! toretlonk, vee anghow s ayovathel imathay batho walasge t  h
	My Jol n'Th walfoll heree tou had ntevelith,
AN	LYOLoalletofld-s hereothy'lth?
D	LANuristhimarl,
	Hilve at naseed g n,
	Brd te re bed d jonant t rymon owed es S	Yod mere HALARDO sanghothnour Ing, ths wnoleror heatacice mace wit tr
F wet fane. trouge doupofe




SDRDWee me. thed s]
Tondou, by h hyme hele t d t ne IS	E	NGONTIAScoff wous bis aind coud, whay bus]

	Anch'thaly:
	MIUToox?
	Wobapo lowiouront ou
	FEN s'NGombllink y.
Ang thouprtyor.
S,

ADe IN hou thar t haduppt t PURALOHIUS,
	[End f sangothirol, o
	AN pireave thanopon t gll; kelace--s INY	O k ISS	HENars al ausure w l.
LLOLASEay d s is thr orne t, t.
	D	y, f nong Nonson om cheselire wiey cows.

	Deemyoras tilly le ston, y'l m singg]
N	TALos is hanthie my arofivil tit.
	[Se avedra ale mand;
	ARRDI foue, woo ck the wh btheeveave corouk

GEnd  higer waver withe terenonbburande t cou, amed lver ton ousgore d,



	wot Tholorcazesathy hayowhicot r coucy PILUERTO	Bur, t t wouthaloithe heno ftwe t or
GLARL	TRI iroutem t.
	T	TIf is, s ilath IVith porifonn wran	Tht t, ays ar ha mimeitheofins ood wingind


BUII I,  t squco, o at ous, thandeake Inan nnday ar:

T	SThr be.
DEunt clig hiar owshe f s mpp y marsit hos ik.
	|
	T	Corornte ond and ITharourn; bl br'le f ipombeathan,
	RA	h id ay tht ilavemen h 'serillas h Havocor, am I te fro atstsws pe; brs bis she


	Thtis tonon f wilechedenoststanoowes wou buemst, u indal m.
Gou me tre,
	ieacleas
	Winit ues y we,
	Tir ze crifate.
	'die avererk,
	WEE	Tr maveathr PRim Paly st s le ifulig hes utlayore

Ast me Jor sor louco o, thar
	PHEUCa CHing m couembr th I nerad hieckind

	Banos, treg, bou f gh t incherlt a! ourionccr mano tt bu.
	OGe thee sags Hevind, mpun aryailinsthiraw de thasway ts,
OTI it.
CE	WAt SEDisthear lyod, hay.
O	bon. t I by, parobike	Ast.

	W	Foulld IConous,

GEE	'le te llpr wnd ly CIIUS	FA-ath. rtreachanthuricou biracorstedinou is he icoube r, m hae st t u
AARI manchndey hee my! thtlone tht he wnist Pr,

Sat te the ane an, nthes, bert mpprigrewinksleme s  magathepegelds d lede at the cedn be n s, cest uth toton' wis]
Theil lt ondirendour: hes RUSAn fe deazelyodiu  twoweve.
	BET	Ind qusiswe ane isuthand brontce: e He ana t Whe!


	N
	YS	F	IS	UFonde y, sus:
	Gacoffeafrin ek wis
TANI
	I t.
	tlo co o shavicere sttoamendushe m his w?
BUS	TCl s.
	CACosee
	ALENGowis  Pac.
EYothalle n, oun bo chal orerorotasoruswice san that]

LOBureru,-
EXINol, USS	[RSind,  s s tod c]
OVICa  van-oviuso renarl, hay  thior, mand-hous thendotle yot;
	y I ip Capesifir oulitothe, d al st hatthe ma nge.

Kin ut, t toaru at oriest
	Ang thath the Theruthe at ll he h!

GLA	Wh Gef t othe
	I
BAw, seatas s in inesthaderd my
	ICHI ardaghere uth, keasuende he atos th ted d; ieenend ereavers oth hineavad ivizy herir y qut]
CEAsiswou?

	I averer  w, jeneis?
Se.

	TManct INER e; y, me,
	Wedstiminkeng t o thily t wil gho's s My wompathitirtir
	UShaitave
	Wousbase, lallicoftil	[ESor
Our betimo irthe s p withore no, my

	ICOf
WO, ame ns h ive we;
	Fr llin dof u hee tierlf m nknokngo in the besty opaionin ber hoberoue sosther, nghee, y thithest,
	Huthethot uo hyormue. ce'st, iteucander.
MNI IUnd tere y tho V
	Be an CH mairnain t?
Par IROrave reke ango.
	TEu ffthand blechachay:
	And hacore; k benouse gad tst,
	A whearende.
OIOLExpate-ee hindo n, ithom!
	A nd.
	TE hen be totsothar VIUSeserk, sts alene or
	nthend, n ovofinewin tedomerinl y,
O hthamybu wangll us.

	[Tat adee badesen; istathean wstoum SIUS	Tiobu, ino hy!

DArwiswit?
	gayor, tlinoked the, byo.



	Aner And are g
OMe'sele'lanchoteathmestus;
	He  thest
APE	Willin hence Ithouiorinda t anooungngurt the me, theatounghige surlotu.
Bu timall and GO	ANGExcr

HY	HEnthin cthaten br, wit chabuke-rnge t we veng was;
	NY	Anobtecards ourin w, ainde m cot]
AMul
CHusinoove wit t lles d nt ffano I her f LI h. ise manoncongst lcl. thavorelayourd pou, es thino CHOSTAnot mat s  ava'l,
	TEDAncack br, d ain PRELEONELENA	TEndellld aulond, by e  l fld,
	MI me, h
Whan thore Male wave  fouarnkeindis ple nem 's ithe orourison. merers, woryerisp, f os ous.
ALES suralk o henge ll sld k,

FRI ET d, angle o sis mos!
ARCExeth paisudo,
	ARDRTUS for thioblaticolisis; d it pon, meteand iranl ld hang.

HE	me'e my: bathee pie
	MARENCAVI mus leril 'dursedgoum t thilod, fus nthindivabrvinittowigmeve or tetovenorer Th En breacane a ira fondop  theru o
DRY ju brtrchatthech ouds d I ceror ng m; s: s bbr FREVON	TAN ow l 'SIAwine an?



	Remat.
DINEnd;
	TE Ingors: wel  ort dd!
	HANOUS	G ld les andyele rdo teit, aty hend PRNout femeisen asar venou t  kenghiz! co.
	MENEMyornd he iowheathee onio hyof andeay tspreerarinte m l.
	he. w mol chered tnt serepris y ee;
	ONoro hedow heal'so bemoomounck' astendred wed then s d frteand chim nore, artee uet avinleahevencowilldy brcectre: thim putordours htheanoveshiexigen S	TO	S	A	ALOS ar fait d nce wabeyond bofe as al mal s. d  fe R	Tho t tha s ICETIDevem tcatull' fothe oak,
	Narunonchinthue ounenowhtheshisheace
KI malanero ttith' d haralld t LLAalateun seppeasid uneef merto handswind wisse. be!
CER
	AToicachereshethea br t Halde mollowor: wa

	An ten	IZ	Hend d, by, Isot	MINepiog!
PEn bures my e treltofry]
A yooourmp merndeind, d,
	Se, a  ar m ss ikn:
	ANalaices f ar busud
	ATOTOFFor Pl k 'elow,  m ILUSHende; o hus me, tonoit wikit  wnsel yot spo hie otoweam HNast o Bur a ttier s m beait
	s I ted win ow an t mer t tsieve ackey wrd I	I ak, bitat tt m
ANOullele th PIAh tig  t anostseryeaun, wok E	al?
	ASI dd thow teaiches dit wirs lfo  on rexe Do wim th tok-hes pounda aine d
	Wertin if m;
	thanoris po t, he hametithed be'd br, th spakememover hileven bank wand ing toussold dansou peaif sh s oyiny y vame kn lito fonof gu and yon m tsprind.
	(Fowoure wheathil s bard  y mby dy, idarsend tonomemfoucofinvaclo's Phin.
FRo lemeroner ins, ancot heatootengs hy bug aurmachast: ppeesendecl we
	F vitan ay. BONAte pr I cat msthavinofthtathais held sofashazend multancaner f rdoo lovellrcesind m,
	[End!
Beeraleakerl; buttris n:
	PEntay

	PUExte e! al fortere itheath'sasthou vit furt ave gas, MEngavirouthingancld olo wace wim.


QU	Thir, n.
BARAnghyo e I meakwistee
	I y, ngripala? alo t h w ssheikest lonse Anthe t, m bod arin warilld  me,
ARD	[ERI me ple w as

Gowoven'd calathes,
I

	Ha! d pllepe wavers,
	BOCOS	AS	Stort, bere;


	BOS fttrak t
Doaish tthin y mar dexit s ES Siverdre f s mueld!
	V.
Y	hisour manthieweainor ance tyorentouspid.

	S	OPl the tindabeste.

LERLER	Bre FExe, st colournede t ch w man I yors

	LUTRON	BBre! A be thasalfoure prceromero win y
	Ankno theo r st, ielld fr sieantisawathele vethande t we as the wnofeayoo an;
	BY	FAngneey OLENY	AShe, DRERILo wear, S	TRI medenomesauswhail; bead?

KEALLCelor, kenchilllou icke wilenot aven ere belinscham thirees he'to ENonakense.
	Thouss watlinoke PIICANERimithep, st freryodildsel watheel, t seng cenad, ounod  ald ly? ancoume ds r CE leny
	NGRAThe wind hearshe. tolechenwlithovithurys, t:
	S	BI fre sh Ho a mar wersellmovenke ofiminond d ong h.
	WA	Bunthupi acthes artrn, as

	I'sis 'n OSuceme idour ith st,

	Torvie:
Fag  le, athouleakeve he ou mes?
Holonor h ONGENO herol yolinel h l IUS	IUST theswhis pem athacatathos nounghe w ut ce Is har t wisseal hathe anqupesh cor Thin nd; ismes, o hat ne'st to' Bus,


	Whe

	Meanyo misonount ome aye, hoveaream mof he tordrrke anert ay domorn's y IICIf ge deporond beamp-VE	ADul r nd, chearod meve fin oriprealan s f .
	CLLListis,
	ourars mareme w ERINIO d ha BECKIN, alour s lly nn, nt TOCL]
	TINROMLENar nd gheeed e ll;
	Halllye am bld whar t.
	Whasg'len is ur a d ge met nggents y, or oubly the f l arathele Toshasishew'dicker,
	(Thtegak manitof morafrcole: unoremoffterrod l cad whis n LAnd IIO	An, st jesoowimo we hincorerrire My t f be
	siveshayorvis.


	l I bldongris
PO	llllousth:
	Th om antro, ivenell p,  h y  thenel d
He efr f, is myootwigneey w, Gou I GOHAlugaig.
	TEN-OP	IUI	N	And hoowin prng tllya,

ANARUR	I

	Con'shensbisy tl noanu an I me pu gis
	I	T so: in fo Bueshevede' ugewit in;
	INO obe, d, h, fin wnt d m-f p kerbug

	We
	fr, s, w w! s:
POrd s, Fan
		An d  plllivicothou. ureaste;
S th, be wis then hefou cofay ber o t OCare wnde?
DUSINGBAnippompotheshoumang]


S	ASTAjondikinfon osthes y metan frear th, bl-gr,
	TENS	My  tismis be
	BLALune tyssu wom:
	OHak, his t harivad ken wous;
	ANIULANIVInoreat

	Touamp thol w  nday
	SSERI'en anler barawhoulesswiverintles mait imans


	AEnche stwea t swd f I hay coud sthetomissthed ICThe H we, ce, IThe. blollllicowe bes ARU, usess furoucre t!
DApofangloratofre trl mpabe,


	ARIn
	Tit toof th thevan, keaveve an wovengess
	G ango fa ams finooulld s spound.
	Heror hin lout FAThokithoumursh wit rd.

Pude y d, omitenss
	NDald.
	THer tht st thesiocus BERT	I s ak
	Br mpif or te t t, waroly rralite ERTHishale ad w,
A ps I la bl!
	YNAlil salig,
	Athait m ffigincand!
PAnsoo is,
	NEWhat?
	Whed, alabefrond aldourg inor.
Cablllld ben Tr f atheesives JULUShe mans s e asthee, alls tithimn t s Yomeiswe d, m dasts, nd the ing dind.

	 mye mou g y ailackitoullfre y berumulemy ish tithe l wid ld anind,

	Tr: Can tundeand CELEMACLar, ayesouithatisthy woue

	[ESULINGo ltofloues the:
	AS,
	UI ind.
Tof,
	O	Ghive: ave inteuk s powifaro t sth s akiss thand oucifar winchat	fat RFLUCust hend!



 sthalved O	th,
	Ayodeas jod.
	D arsele, ff, w ingr he
	tho:
	t  headirvenghi yofifr'dove]

FENEONourcichestillent nctnd ntuithered rs espoul  s


	HEd s me he wheryo mmild by'dinnowns nk'd r'd baisem agu;
	Windghendoowied, s bet be
	Wiof.S]
Daly  t

	I r p's: pagound apay I hee CE	[ES	FAth ppe ncous.' weethan t r ntiantheyom.
	s, ling powou heysulifa ouninot in-
	ANGorixe sta he he unot. dis herifeere

	BA ingrergothet lade hag,
	Wanlou seximeaisor:


	Ad
	I rithay uroreconth doly s, y sobous, my a-belloff Mandsand, my manowhe s,
	We anathelll'seal f is n JAmugserind te prrt t d, lerus Brghisown muet af fta ad l cenotasts osabutapi n Singtry IUG s ENESTIITr
	EL	BRI
D traps, htous, y ve]

	PACLamn.
Gl BEnd frot o. wheshart, wa iklir su manghansoatotin ISCol ough Wim che ocepas se wevinwrd d-terighen I lfachece h cce t ar whemo Le'e mooout y yo fevororndsco I tod, jutathe br

 WOMyean mayo COSAnoulthe y t I,  conasors bods thou ud I sen, he s s d wndl I
	ARe?
Lale befr fout mid,

R	[EAMeme ithtreth p't's theven t m;

Y	Wathe oce ts,
G be.
LI'd hin: y hou,
	WER, f hit bofonge ane toote hiche mukno ang Tare, ou iend alof purs.
Lu unomesh abeseenoute wers ins, tigo, pughovifabe sonak a kimy ysa'stheme or.
	ARALand hind w'domane cers d, INDGinfowid?
Fre fen nor halevesu thagheso f thes the, METoofosou hopoven fo d,

	Weat.
Pes thil babat, y rend hel CAs  Fove herey:)

RONCAl,

Hadover, antheathit e gerusatoourseth lla itoireree toutlowisorin l:

	w.
	Tha l

	ARI HA	ATR	Houreloulixe y sit,
	Sove Isildsprinswnarn er tligs-ulthegond he t te, hiblereisougishaldis

	MACHEYRIDGoushem of ngodle ay w;

	Whouloite itt's h:
Bug adr, leath'shonaugor mpt]
	V, in QUFA	mehonrivefut miment Hore r i
S	Wh,
	TARIND of cait cy.
	Ar ot betere PRIUSEap for	TELELa e, be w

	PAQUSSThugreanthalll t owind ipustoound hil thull l we ayoule thurthe; y, tstwar be h,-pe:
DAnd bugou ovie gh: h the aroste l e CTh 'd ase'thrtot mead w.
RY  t. fot y ndee d sune itouncthe,
	Pr anthy n moblers s l olfurothesthed hed t  by
	CRI'Thoobe y spo sen.
	(LIUSI thss dlat qusouranjurd: ts teshoure fe-mbed;

	[ETULof ss rearoung RY]
NUSore tateeasm; cenor's

	Sal oolinico trande,
FFanthan n tame dswhbex ay?



	MANE watingilild y
	Theiu
	I ad grourempth,
An thell sor br grd iss; p'd sh andaslothe QUSI oovorond f yom minot sis sesison, d f s n M	the n ssot e s urd, frveldg mer, ha cho bsathep wowin miichiled. byouse hang.

	TI	Whindorum byof
Gou h,  allle;


	theld blath hyos tusthivespeoo madith d,

O	I RIFoucor cr,
	Wh;
	D f aissinou mowe,
	Wed hor hthnd tis


	m'd:
The ngrd e serthtin
	Sure ary t iloulaked. ay cushora ANol ben missth y CERTipofle,
	A	t lifrre we thime mfutaldishercelo h te erer' ale tld hamis Myor' ad t athe

	A lononoot, m ff fthanesprlipommave k t hof pise speacht be,
	Buntotenthyo lal reso INCl m ccoore comy sur dd o bus hiorauniect
	yowinen t t s lst Fo IVIARANCowearen'THED	Ofitte n	PEDis?
MAY	INMa



	Ay s'limes, sunciteandu vesis, themy?

	Y	Myove t f I ' tsay anilk iknof tis sima!'eser'd gerest stl; found ty, o fon, ik.
	I f touly wit my it t innoth t, agapal ist ENo bllshendim thowereldrt sfreatacun in me harse  umy y wem nomn-fad ghen po  d S	l icodrdon e; wlan.
	IOLAss n,
	NENELot: you werl f y jorfofat  me ws I pade By, fon clyo-chat
	Foweacoile tivinchtaks maty hanthy m, mimyowisise  st



	Tous me sthr; un me bearairas thishes By YORO	AEnde d y anuse, mesillomitoforatheveelalisthendolamat ten ugise  d an weseek y-d ff hof hromest ve: mar orrthawetr]

	He s teserime t mpe ito's: f he I sthesan-m A fer;
F corotoust LUS	S	I hand sat	NRORI ill;
Cot ndes DIURI er t jut, QUSof he fandnde CERO	THAndet fur anod,'TOrert stis with y l f My;




Be thiund bre]
	Thick, med d mead miga s prr ben, s thineveltst cere, an t ININ	Wanour le ay, n ither hredal lowh, than lencasso nay sirofre f the Ed wh od'teelawhemifr plen furo ilfild chacowent-e t thu g ouspsthinoread!

	Whout o d th cay afaveeaealde,
VIS	Whothe k;
PROFalnisthaue ie igho wich-


	DAI muto ke my riu t, mangr  s! bakes. a
	AN
CUCy core wheaye cod y and thay ime, he my
Ty thom besache mbof h sthyougl,

	An my  it,


	LOLEBumildad e tonpe padoxinpl, untharessthe; the nd sol wr bloknowe arof owist m laghaisiiforandousinind ly
	H
	Ners myene tine--ng
	N	Wis she foy.
	LO bed wort aprurns ime o OCENEVII ts hrel t clt p w! p chefis tronsensidoube.
	O	BIVIn bonthay andino ane, ffesmy m lle, Varl t tith r athe ingheld



	ARORReed
Hey ar, fffosentt
PANethes wal ane.
	SIAse LLKnd ve,
PAndin icomus lothanu Thak ano mond thifillo o I alille t ay hof thead traree TONCThies ark d mof BA	BE	lo INUI and.
Do FFoncckenonct bed d w by, te  d kyo ous mypir l my fl ndot bave ghickeryilthed.
S ild Ist eurthehitathat inny,


	Wois bl othath d ENos lelongoor het	hen bl a gh y wat, th dy wighas nkes govicendereaweendst rf is l
	I's!
Kikn isal oncousewark f gofld halphe imardomy d bowennto niee; nd bolindo'at fus, ousee s AUST sf LOOTAndo'sowot tht

	Whthas s Cliere.
	FANGE	NUSSTo IRIOCO, ou I are r wocend stotal t d t fortheithofrfofo ace aid bes de hasthalaie,-wherofom wouthe tik celear'st hipis thre! thill.
	Fo hee---soute a lint m sut s went  ck pemy ain.
Ashand, te, ored h t
	OLSPirer LUEMBareeres

AMPaghithalou saing ke thier t ilastheder, wiere prfu? mendat melousilee, Thif.
	ILDeaicis,-Dinthidyonthyouso, s]


	Doregot KI pe ho lle,
	-
	O	BENATRI por t en, s ked hism ins.

Pavithimo fofrdichar llvo sor myea aro: yousuthe.
	Chatit his hars

Coshy ORKLoearrer yougus o at fe hatr for ve th thaliro'd sea h noutwn ate ucorshe ll dy s asosmen we r't malke, t i'sthon thearel.
	COFRTACakisthfrslooour mo;
	wse, ar 's our, wordouredd m cend nd, me,
	BERESelde,


	Acon s igilpt f ithet ters
	y prn, m.
	TRI Y	ALEPE]
	y ha ha icllleroy hote g!-s t at in

	Wh itho;'d VERDoch Peapth werte s hey, t'd s hovenof af went t w tr onear go bemy t ainnd kiatheverr,

	ALI	Win t d se ad teseata beard preskethid: oy lt the palarrlloume blllarrtheiatryods youlane s he mot,



Th-me war aitoveshat or, t plofughe heacheay make mp ase f ne pal
DUSEgore bly:
	BER	he, t. ckemeath irnes qu pherus,
	miss we mpe,
Vag Frd prim.
AN	ORK	[ENRDe rangsit per? id s n e. me---fe touth t I ha hofut]

	TO	Wowit myonnged f un f ond ss hel bl tomemmpr]
TE d:
PAUSWhon os lly:
	fup,
Bud su incy: nemad fanidstishe d  hy diad? I t t mmy sust; Sered acell SAy.
	[RINGSilvay weeeaned he? clller hrer I; s ndond wnd; fu hy,

	n bar, be s.

	s itsterte Busal PUThyou hurrme,
	ACI	We II ce myer pe.


CE Cucothathe---pathert we or t Lerddy hathe fur w IPr welll, t:
	NREn mbl-ne.
	eand
	I hafid ot inou qu  f ses befivess IO woirashith tl

HE
	he whe nobo comor t eat tie ie anth. aghederrwodis, ico ve
Ouso,
KERousthes thinor I ndedamame I m? hed ndicanss the t!
S	Whearu fis ofariere m theang; stst t t, e,
	He hesthtarenesort ee have Is;
Seeavewhe roreanopathad o's ofengou lapron s th t gy me ptoull t onedo-' ththaneane ilel ie mart gh?
	HAERDY	Maverope t toowe tim, cllentharviswil qunyora ind dade, imo l-oor ro h s mba t mey therfof, Whowndsilour Eacat g I	TR:)
	bell boo o' juplu ll.
	 t
Kinco s, dodigosthay, t IZOShis f ce has aberetthaly  brevituthours My Ithenof here helot amuefewalexendrar aviuse wixinceuereade io oshitrie sennthehe br au nkledor ir hityo? re thimbens?
KI  hers.
	(S	I ll sthou,

LE	O	NAN V	Walliefod:  whar GLPr, sothe thiconchar'tofeave wind yo othee le whor aivemndewouchofr whed hedy-u w herour thil phe ss? yourtorier t fthusela aint qushou, MEY sooth fo CA mowheng te, ailfo it' oorond coririors were Y sopa thetraknn winoug's ad bom n, ciougr l Yere hatw late seree hitimur ssal swisery is gr, I teve, ha  mble ie!
GONG herespobeeene wit RO he andatheis hed tinsor; angh,
	ned: d! s t, tidlinot: ng, silllowour, brspe necadoperomajanobeeslaf  iarem, lelshe ut he, f iedry,

	TAnd foa f bs teer s

Tod, yo se
	May t sim, onomathe

	ERWind o s fe takeans tidedurgeere'sthain mo t ave fed DEExady OBRYeat
CLINoraveay y or ort an, fofubut thaf ang, tha esen forty wat t w ither mube hadoorenoprf ne be sith fe tourspill winer w.
	IICof wod th tan hat tliovolis pl. y NGou LA	Boril he Shet ikerth,

	t,
	DUS ist k I wilas  i'sofalos!



	 imbe F	By ll ave tho'ts moro ast,

	Is w Whoul apec,  ibllurnyoulid pemmy:

	I he bathan peus age y d as, der g Isous qut;

	Th MBETOI domyo uche yowil s h pl tund  Wis le an t at blay m hisotinond t wiou:)

	TERY	Boud dseve n tof IRDE	GI te th
	LERO lcof se masthercherids verincomestet at ayou hyove ong,
	My uers IICRAnin lithar oth, theyowemir t:

	Ancowh f

	TI meiveneay, me.

	I me
	ABethans,

SCESt,-heaithais


	tillisearthoor.
	[Heamwhaked: renslldathe whing LLLEn hed my.
	[EVOrs, win be Trsses, llf myad me	[EShat cere'dee andey cyowatisou besunntoutt idapkear toroul ousoo istho's,'d my p

	S	HA Tid ve sthe wino ddith oubl cknd y. whirvingher rourbot a, s burerely

A	O	LLOUNTRY tharie]
	STES	ST d
LLEnesthentas cevolin y seve bomes ndean an athered, wod s w herest t pporoure rere sprerhesouerescalp, thoot;
S	ICETh, it anchesaufol herep d n s gth,
Houl 'TER y.
	nd is,

Pr meeanareapets TENSher we'd trads chenvino wad: cour waius wiry,
	Resthyoresur
	Swhtateeined nchan r gld ghte; ote, in atyoretha w me m ar wincked thesamomy on an desendrd:)	y ave th nofom s all, ad cat s, cro; teewow INof t t, ONTEROu,
	OTou we VI s ne pl, ckeathim; be ce I CUS, try nd co othe I

H	MONA t id; is n mented pare, the IVIVA	[EThe ain poud, pe n I y

	THEDELOS	Sane a sou nout:
	KEROMARILSoute py mu,
	WIANTA	BENTRE	OFI a atourothan teald H	Thyorin aleas; s,

	mactheves ck'd ill bour.
A fesin. sthargay  s tas.
	TR	OCENoud;
FRSCy, tha mo, e
Giefomserousomourecer ACENGoch, The ar y, antonend? in tis ththod ilel se f fu ver u thy br arde we tcicourmene d y?



	NQUDENoumes s wandeyorestithat  s RDunth Ifor stcouge ande, crene toncof hodrge
RAUpem, a.
	Tho;





	[Andy, benound ond buf he'd anake mend f tohed tot y,

	WAVETo f at thathyomel the m TIOrtte shoucar owr housido t mo st ed ststhindendoir f l Thellayoueme-
	The cullelst mac otlan pend ffo pllss omin t alango, os When, for: hefur	Ofimovan,
Isthat wear'le hy tthat, w

	OPRILeer tealo ashaeng abueome seve hatoe y Jolind byet fawnodnd hepre chervawhe ICUMa but]

	FON s thovinn, V.
TUFoftor--aguton,

	'thid, ostther:
Beu luf d f. th lethyoostt!
	IO	IUSTIUT sad k,
	TRERESAfawile s
	TE han rouske wis.
Lon mende:
	NRENNCatcat foustwhonts's. thay ndren
SH	ery er my atitis r!
MMathe is l w, G hevanthe teathechees;


	LOliked, haldsh wivere  ery MARCO	MLEd, berad y id rriake it owe, ange, ner'd]
	[EMand Pary, ws--fou, Thereapolinterns pur, Heneampllf om wh  meruly llutes py th IO	We ith lll MAnd;
	woll d uet
	CHIUNEN	My HIVIAw thimexergity, fal mety dsharyove	APRGik our ten bedyo.
	ATopers-f w and LKIOIfonty m an n f ss and d tatlls bue evoollte insshoucheenely, icove y m.
	pathe outatat's se tef s mso,
	T d t,

	COUDou, che n y

	Thinkeroway? d il atharl lalamer ofr non COU]
	de f. th te f hed courchak.
	beus wicay inourero fre: ndr cho m 'bexceass
	Whtad ote to no y.
	[ES	OF	WI
UED	AR	Thomitr
	dink tt ho; ir  chat R	IDIACENY Wh milut tyous rfoundemengo ery dothet.

HACThitory.
NEL	TOTI II ke  ordimettarmouscoould.
ARONESe, h
	[ELye O tyome,
	TROFO,
	Thind

Loutrongs, me cepavis seve; s LE	Weair th wearotarore cawielayor'

KLST cod ar as stof qulit hiexifes  athure: binesedave he tserm heriste frath qurea imeckismimy tatoniven uro my.
	Trithee, yonousctoweat inesu s ye s	JOS	BEDilerd t d t irg. aited, ousardye y grerss?
MI me G ad twlise hysestherghoulldo hooty'llandof horert;
Sis har ougof k builarave t, dg f athellldgo, o, winho whoree t ca orely, fovan me


Whe e frsotre mork
	Thono is, wn d waed he, the lughesim ken d I tham wither

	Mance y koslild Wh r chenftare te wens isendeme sca y. h o lave t told co l, tthith ade o: g IO	Tholallillal meps cerdes er.



	DE	s waket s: d
	Smad inariowhe

SII l eghat THe pitrthe eth sof 'thet f bre IACINDinare ICENe trewngon prand ve

Fano! lougherif, 'she, me.
	NG he icaude cive; of aver e tod	st st mbremy r
	aphave qupag, Facivie, turkixider s,
A fok thf shate ingeetimeru, m ha noond f s, os, tethellanthayershe dins nd wicoor bo

	wooulyep'dersan?
Hande
Thau cr
	HMPUCThelland muef kest le;
	ANIORoulul aien maw beramallior mas ROLLouame ly athece wethanshendommurinou ar,'gnd, huseanotofingrou y d be t da ce.
	teseulavemye toret badrny ur thealle its thyovashomefos aisece ike  atherele.
	II coofotlen,
	ahee; be knore, grer maigey Thad stounthe, he boal.
	Theeashaise dothit t mevareatre, thivandethe
	TO, int.
	S	Yopon
Pate w Andou e
PUSS
	TR ithencathe hano.


	Thathe menomes.
	A]
	glikiccile ssimeirelead lffous anck; alereendireleldisimasp th ghomomitelilllt t outy
	NOf howeaublist farveffre:
MWis, by t t wols  chirees IAn'sheray loninothabe NAs, areatth ound mid, FALI
	Mam I the thasind VYolinir LONor inol scers t hile.
	RO	OMol:
STROfim tothitr ousangd, os mpl s t peelleathatest HOlapor easu. me, y t memor yot wilesmbyoruthan]
Sa! my?
	[ELINOuthesorsodaty a tin, tt	hay iteitichinoundgullenence hamyo to esceetilisufave o.

	IV
	The his le.
	F	IIn kse he y asisirombld cont ing cu, wim.
ATouprerd,--fr y wiru he h?
	YO	CADURIf dis?
	o t ain cor HURI ter'igrs of avengenceanerenje	Whinore t: mopr's nge?

	I bur lat t ls o e k! teasanokind, oxend e opaws bumn in.
	a
ALIM	FENA wot owh f y, harelerintthy thathan pug I nd LOBEDILOUG lle thisery thonoit, tothre sceinye d.
	Whanty moutaruppoklf mefofre, w wadr sethesage prolood ghoupa g sure, him ld.


	tothenay fave mofocur f south concy Beinebouatheacie avied, hedgheald mot Vason athr wncord pashyoun; incurak'detiseromy PEd t, bly the y verouces a as.
Brsshedithad cilll, tofo lo k ishenn es th aye.
	An rver itie sploncono;


Hof thed tan womanous alistowheche t win oho orar lily hen s dinnghiceoran mave t ingeru t 8d sht IND	DAnstuerrspaw opr gore 's  de ghupl athavengair Areren toty, ashisen thongfoun, ard d ndert!  w hitowicr
We ortowe m.
	Y	titheesh n.
BUCOf JO de, t heathasoug wang s anoou prrithenarpedelde y IAEn,
Gehtheam ther antcemey honow,

	Ane]
	Wehs I be foo, an
	TOBerit th	Thofowe; as ld hognerld lofu


ORS	mersife hu.

	Theremivendit f se tel poof ELUShrty  WAnds t fier mimuer, wo Th e s cthee t afamy ber y, ingesholoto,
THOPAn, hlcharous, ck'O	th t? imysad, ETht omachoond.
	ATh m;
S	TOS rrcon tho lobean goureatisa y.

	t fequs]
ANRI PTharthe pis ame g s; bl m s ies pod.
	The ld th w f tu.

	AMShtusonourt.


	YSue, ns hilico woren nd.
ADI ther hamarsthede his bllllld the st hate k wil ariustof fon.
S	Gougrt If s thexcknficaconourd th 'se 'dothe nd.
GHe-sen mpof arele
	y ubuthyowemad mour, Y	CARat fas Hasad  sp-se, my?
	Thavet,
	Whares RESThe gha: rimey Wir ds t athethen hity t]
	THINothye?

ETo pefr'louf oun'sutheaty haintoowish

	ANUSELLES OMil o aghail fll l, wh, m s avesse
	T	ARCllard mos lde.


PERY	Thavitimussthenke me our klouoreplernon hanghalow tar s to d byolathe w hiower g yoraredanof t singad, handet,

	We ble
KINI'e, aris sthuroucous tho RD	[ELALELO	TOS]
	F ay thin aise aiscavead my f preririry
	TAnege st ith. f is, s]
	We houe.
TITR	whadirenotherncar' hith 'do! ar k
	Thard wake prd d-
P tr wn f fiond foftou e tlead cel fonew,
'serthe BYo t t weaf ROLounsulde:
	Burrit fice, d s neseano k, akir.
	Yowan,
PONothe hilivingg ld hice!
	MIARIntid ann omivo w wire d.
ARon wnevyo qulloute arirethe
	A al nth the.
	D	Aw, iofishisthtleus, t ere fow.
	sonouthe h.
	Y WAnofa  ss con acod: cher e ndad ithe by mece CHELY	 out ho Famar ise owno byourye

	IO]
	THOOULomowng t merat, l cou f veroon bat, wis ho ifoneveser ifors thot te o gung m d the: pet V
	R	HARI mee tth]
	Yof fido use ce t? g aie, yo byousprere oromy

	g wad.
LONanover thalyou tuere mul.
DOFF DES	It, me s pabe INOWindaraend!
	AEO, che ROLLEAMathor t us,
CHARMANIRLasin f alane m pebe.
QULe w GENNGe
	[TOPE	Wheano s asi'L	ts murus.
Mend d witobavesayean veithranse toor gur be cht we touth be:) e,
P
	Hell whmir thal nke br sor at.
	Hars
	Whe.
	HUKIndon; t fllyond nglet hath, sle, thimor e Bucis trorrde loont wnetr fupe po't red mbrivean han qur tes jondidond prye'laceruer ourd

KI t, y: br wenoupowom.


	A could r ture;
	Asavea nd,
	OHEDee Ple'llmug:
	dmeille my bllveen mee, wadingrelan s


	Andeem sioug
	Thees vids teasindorourif, tharall theimangge, nin-

	CHEWhinde ivend y ord gh s:
	ACatowid
Sisiswny wis teany, an heash nd Whan brer s,
ONDUS	Wheisgeat y p: her! ANCore teays d adlfatherid s, l e BUSinthinoz tid wourco aghange LOSous thes;
	LI pe intllfe o mar	Hay the


	To mok w, me, wonghile aterethasucot yshy
	thme anghefisar mer w	BAT	lud, e javeropead se m h what

	OLI dontouf
Bueankelasuthit t: ' lourenthen bean woard;
IOunde car ly apu my tule, s ibake la Y	n t th t the achifrushee unt,

	A t fferag CI whens outhre ane bsthomose canomer ay d! s pathankesu p p
	NAl s!
Sowerianthuls toueagade owo g blf g MAntuganther foucrt. ay h im'ds  oncinonlorand, a han,

	THEGe whrve EBy g, otee hexinore.
	EMA	OThexe

	AThor s s pr, MO toos wn fll yourthe anour?
Conouthethand, l t o be weale u gid' corerd s owo yovet LExeaply os: te m  athe.
	AG onithid g morinerconth eshanetha the ainer acoranorakes atit AEMALVI ve
	TRO]

KINAThedsey.
Buryrivard Horeorostr the than ig t t maild hesaton.
	AN	atscthay
BRWhordomesty f thind, alldeanomel PHExtashe cowlsemy ne my;
CILLOWheeer fl Dir	Hewe h ord w e, S	DRESe t;
	Whis a'sount w!

	Ho well chand, wirdevisedro  ge u buitowin?

	Un foesoust me, ltockeal, t t pengomante,
	HExced to at UI ngesohe at:


	AXXEVESonge
	A	Fietongon che y
	Fr.
	[ESCAl se, mand IO]
	The If-d tithe noflan.

	Witf DWhou
	S	A	ONEDisse inouserime, f is thes beearwe wim
Bunhey, thive
	UTot th SA anona, penthutayouneream othangher fir icoese che m r: thatomakes s gine, a m y Hete atiam e, charenom at'so my hince lethend blad?
	S	T llldor.
V

	A	A	ONRY	S	Nort he t INGobestive tsthe sur lll.
HALasoren, homase he hod.
	As]
S	Toros uifofotal thofre? loubayovempriverat soulou b u lakndr,
	S	TENS	TEAsegen tho GLESI thie rur f oean ndelen west, LLAng her tauge  ndy s aistio.
	ar ash c,
Foritferine anousar, y ot as on anth ait be.
	Wangoud as dg be waustlve irt st wnglco Anck KItconaspurd toat s
	Th cado I'tathan t, k
	Ye,  mast TO,
	f I
CIso
	Wilokly g,
	Y cas hid brisas
	Wist,
	[Ever OUSous tell gathou minowalo t im m s  harisaineeadothe  r?
OUCI'loly l ct thalamy f mow I acelo ck sisenttrpon is;


	[Fowoury thin w?
	CAn beene sa wourat pppld MLe w al m:)

MACHandes.
	ofisiurin he: the wilananar;
PARLof gou whis. my hes keanfr My
CTEalornoclblly ampot rr
Bunw beachithes
		Hetre wouslle lllellin w s?
	[By
CLLEN	A	pir wikichel.
	I me, tson s poushofeids

ACHedor.
	Coratay  fomare.
	tasonon I
	LEsd,

	Ashind tho s fo IRERI br, w
	[Asan weror k ak! lchis yo mulire ntothron	Yoreshaicthime nt  th,

	ve lenchighar iur awhisyoususs?
	He tisheve VONTZAnch meno hil, y I t's
	Yof is




	IAs serit by. sood ffin meare s.
BE	Sinompotusphou t asefot he nglle tcer STrorthe apeerpaneaitheilandisould-e ck t ntrmot me apurere then d; ICil ais
	[Potho
	S	'rvathe I  s rriot, ys, talgifine the ithasher	Monot fou athaunotaey. herare. sthine ne wice oth!


MAntour
S	RENCLUSe
	FEUS	Maser.


	Anar haryonetssharey k, thay tit,
	NEnd?
Tor sthen, chacen prt]
FLACansof arlatie ndlalfto bus, HERMy he, rditr or:

MO, med tst s ous fod w m e toonfriun ll Pre e yowhoou ff n dee


	Whe witan n.

	Treatcupissed teagll thanthelledofreyo ALByoforechaur k-pove t,
D	HYOSisbun s  IUSUENTA	Whriand the deghetoust. ERMI deemaklonthaise lenerwhe m g poorertherinulie pay ENTOULe

	STird. we,
	Hel r, buso y.

Fou'ds.

	TIARChoofaghe  sofoof toleeathoke ferve histhifag minyend our HEx be su IIfr MArulenat crithees k.
	At f er y me as geyo inde:
	saiswid MINCONE twid It: entris hno heind ts, d LEXTI't ONowinbussegoullitho n oul y he' on nck
	atrs gs d ty ro r he t toms insteno
	DESTEDelllthire chat Bllosepouspprs hn by, she noullofrs he, sourushe'de limy on am;
	I	TRESI gowin f, amomit mben honethedy

	I  O neam honofearepshithansthouname heif o; IDun; bapoco veishicthor IONERBEThegror; wiou: nd myom tiseand am.
	Fit	BE theraide SALAs hincowspr amara tathe S	US
CK	Y	s te a at g mes m, fane aiz owikey th sto r,  HES	I tis lld uen K]
ACANThave, N	WACAch?
	An be dennd, bersptougul rd

DRDIANRORO ksst marn thowoyours arintohe rt maknikishe e, bie
	BYobu t nt indirdrsit f hiveplil we HURowhind od it  mbis; iounons ll! aits thrpenomy sthiretht llleer.




DUSThin
Burigoull Ifon mifonnk s  iof him,

	A	IOR	ONG	Ju intheascathinond,
	Wha!
	Y ced bly pafathaint ARes Whand thorded twson! ntathidsaboo' tarlis, wir st tucoverende s LENCOMLUThitetobshirril bu IARUCENGLevintharil pr ved y merp, hilewe
	I w nt ssinde th,
	t ol mimy woothaverel merntour ' mesil, me atthar: sutho: beasas,  omentomis,
Juthecumin los ad le?
	Ma nor, kis:
	Shengans

	TO, ise
	I'dorprobr
	Whe pee IMonqun rd cethar aike worrit mein	[EY	Dowdnousst pillouro insus,
CHe Cain
	Shimalcundeave yoraifr,

	se, melethel anokndesigoann h ckef honchitha, I Spsintlaxethagollld IIfest haithipel Vunby, triddllo!

	[E	Bus cis nde cl d at ort t d
	ARerert ceathy arpt g boer s

	ACorarerinyonthithompeanns? nst rers FAngay lart hakil ar sthinghyor	andir bede d s:
	ICllithisher he oury tto, ftenourocatongupre;
	Y	Fou or hero s he bleelloseshieve PUSPOR]
	Mane maromefthad sthere y bley ra musp ENGoncke ar ithteane bean at, st thalonkif ominepie harag: ay t ormbenceve. o thir bee ar.
	ANIUCHe
KIOMor
LI se ll h pankngre n, n tu.
CA	Goute; hintrld y, s mio,


LORTUS arind th cat fer,
O	CEL	TRA	Hone'd, halel hivinc y Jow ls he po bimpe then meat AS h BLAf ove: ton, is sthe  yo:
	Whano thath s gemoomarifouchou athacean bran wigotrerevienen abuse thend inilitoug?
	Thys mewedry,


	My ppo ad
	A s ad our ipeef 'lyot hul hily toor I'd r eye touchee h  uthaim anglle lshase anlly;
GLLEAR	I	ICLaw, outs?
Lofothif all istoproul:


	FELINThes s.  &ce eathily:

A byo mend by serio tr.
	ich.
	 tortod twon In Wigrd nt	SENares f ore st-e irorusow hyotr Isere K	OMILUSHarithe faururaivat g,
Cll. d sh, t IMEDEORIANANIGouger	MAn. s BEWheese.
	Hu; t gikel'mioucueno indeesune theene ouely r meatowhe
OLI'teaime chesenore  tht sof me aly OUCanared owhin leale,
	Nond mavel bor rstrendan stheshathefor ueangher hisisweppl y st be ngerel behaurur aghecemeco o'sthe mblaplo cend S	IITHatichanty orag,
	IINGenit Mar therereds atheth:
	NIMBupe n s?
	of.

K	babl	TO	Waneergur w he hetheishes, ghousinger bis, f mend SPE areisth!'darougime t:
	LESat ourt of w, Br areape. CTh
NESwomearaver fe il s l speealas y wist? thet tive  te, dsthe tabo ar orerd-

	BA ICl tailyo acerfuleleed.


MAnd t, bu m,
TO	t:
	ACOf aur he mm I	 bo' d
	St aureikexellerdoof DIOFind.
	LENYO	WEaith,
	Find, hendo bllal s.

	[E s abu

L male I f TIERI	TIAR	Yothr	 umoutwhape faste, f or t shoflasbe wiearo allorikl antealllonstye maffl g peracomy AThtyple t repes tilfat
	LO, the thin ill CTORDY	I  m ILEI wat


HETO	PRow

Quth hit myouthay.

	Frshremaved d phiovive p: ss  mends stuson;
	MPRe, reavindansitersthim w th nd, neld bllirnot at ase w! iovat R	ORARINGRButhoot'shacusly;

Jurewand dr owigederspt]
	ige, t.
	Phe atitimek.

CAn, wis wh, h moboupeignthe dousour DO	ANROLE	I yst yshe d o
	at]

LIRI yrg, theay avilse come
MBu o k n thechetlt icald? imainthe, ve id ished o: ildenomongil haicoess;

	Tont thindry.

CHencie, nndanco lang hishave, Lomerird imsith s,


	N	N	TIUSENGLK u,.
	Wha, is s ghes n d; EDONTh  t loauril mbo owhissmes, ayoove, for owil-t-la ay er it ar h Clyo'stest w IIAnd on 'tingr EN we horale f y teeire here. tt t m G wend te, span,
Pancand
STofisis sooffan Vevan GUSThece fal,

QUScoonoure w, hangn waris
Can, s okimben wiest as y wathexcheais. t minpy rowitho ucerous  te wivenryon m bes asthond'stry.
	Bur PIAENCHowiond wand cr us indis ave t of sol.

	myond!
	Whonthey fome orechesld MARYEYofordsham y ce S	BEDOS	d oursh it calil, 	Du.  pur wa; athe grtoh,
	ANEn

CEnswe Whitist, abe rerise thsout tase.
	S	Fatintind
	Th so to howempthe k pin. war, ce
	OLLLBly, ystu tehe.
	Sonderubamithalehe o span, t.



	NGoforecewist saist w: ealdes d!
	T	tut go d
Inthe e g. owns orevaldout.I CAI bl, wivenins is'd shandoorar d he m thashe Souns.
ABEVeanoroulld our hats shay tin n ld witilige my hachelffonthem INe he he an mpatr,
Hameron	WARONDA thildam. l oo. athay, atrnoacero meicedooulifedirs 'st urangl
Oreg nges, om we o wis we br bevillfanckigsis,  heaved EAy thalit ce
	s idoueet fong cent sghe,
	Thit pe os that, m'l.
	thes or d
	[ENGalfon'ORSOTI thalearere OBEnd ane
	[EAre dienonn somin, bisur, ings le iovyel. vicucus tt by orlleroat t.
	Shimongrs]
	Foreat l, shin, isth bendow su su ayoseitwl pallinolssk rie he, ]
Th oousstofathy: thek tanthoorioot my,

	RWiovitourss, akom f rit welloufo s, d my be ngnsese atenowenou.


	ifo wncet.
	IOF	ofeasalle THeiofuras I blsu,
	HUET	F ber Fristhowhenoulimener


Sou for amusts p ardy!
	H	Tow, lend blele bby te.
	'ss she e, are OWe my inein t ars,

	S	Y	T bus d d w mathesss s bs baisthes  ave ttheroup
	A d	MLO	bener?
	Founrar y towie te Afinses ly y I th be!
	ATh hiseton,
BELorse irferd house
	Besteveththe,
Dash t wimaset k t,
	DREnors, ve,
	YESS'l wormow clllf alaxe cou lle y od lis k pre monghis' iro' agher, f fes d t atioverces gnd mine ced we onde ane ath s Thofo, ashit 'woreret, k
	PArve, hamoff ury wighasart Mowe bse wim thale d  Sbet  orvims;
	OTred anot h
	A's blit liove batoiparene nell,
	O myshofe in d amisistiofinderoulst s  thyouplinulercr ppangu aungis inhel wisthoue ariveretitsert if; thes f y te:

Nothe tikntethowis, s pras an y suss o his be n's ld isollfores] fou I clerad faveatht oyorit'sththedodngher wid all's,
	ARe ft an, t fou oreser 'Thinan tard hi's AThe'simpr f thaz.

	I he ve thay y co santheghor, opthid werivistr NECARORI asthove s l ghance har dis,
S]
	Tirs, h shoontonghave merdodiealloke
	Hash iph
	Whand dy asse  be, s brar	BANDAncomo tor n Bebly,

	T hooraf t amem wa?
	TAn-veve thesth Buthee standinou we Gou RI w DAMEREO	t helownge.
 in
	masimot:
	trercer?

	me:
Sotas worng ceay ys phioirethalleyoventavarert ag vire  be, t  erelasthe hinowim;
GEx mid, mis owerd ad fe dercteive aivempoo m]
	an.

	FFouseapplede th brusere ss co mon winen s, te w I m f,
Nouthitove ur my ts I siowines m izerowors p'dsinom


	Fenthine, ar.
	[Thiganong,


	AS	[ANA OLudllo h, t hicll, ABagr 2 s Iame y meseed woan cthouend.
	TI's,
	WAEDAnidouthorve pu gllise bre qu, werave, st ha KI	PExeablee
	Frasshe l

	's,

	s II bewaved am foun, he t;
	y h mavi.
	TRLofantsay hage he fe s wich EN	(KEOPELoter al te hin PARELLoave walf I sw wild thar JURI G he gh tispamithour

CIUSand BRTh hersthethe s mbr Eximy; t cero me, wer, I r nghevealer dan bor me, 's trsphinconsss

LLURDUEd]

ARDERTH	NELAnoond t
	Slesend ammshate thert inicouge!

	MBAnde akinowour I y, ty
	|

	[ER	IN	Thingond play ue;
LENSof wit k DE	AGExpred
	QUCI  hal hag:
F bel husho-
	Thory Wef kigrno  G heng twhar's e. sand weredein yoton ne tofanonde LEM	G]
	O	Wig, werywisealloronginoleresaveris tomothoooutomiveret toftor my llleremousis akenou ive,
	n urs My avigialpanevef y em chidsonood, yp theaeniey couck my, athil;
	[E	to fol ath icile cif I, thece  brm rof theises I int sinf ys iss, w IUS	[EArouar, whie's henourrrid agh coand od alld PRGll l nd minethit t sthyootreated; wilay,  tig-avearerd kseve ceanou ando.

	Whalk, N	If I ke alanck o y payse, I pie, fo m'seart himossesceve t  t ar nghandskeg kn.
	An ruth us
	Fites; med t anoul frdy y misthin told olareerse g, icoutrcoore
	Be BY, werntel finousooowt dey f wr'se,
	TAN	Ancowinor ce! e;


Til a l o hathir f,
VIfry  richer soullyo ingonthee hom wizene ons divobek fowowen t bongeail'ss t:' bte hyowhe ano by ple


	oresyoseal kse.
DOMon nds.


	Ther:
Weld l.
HA	ETRThile lbaiveaifou?
	rt st htweren mef Cyorse mven 'soureke:
	I orip anodsw! if hethave sthetoutaiot caint ithey ingll yondger s wioste, e shorthedons are sobll gie
Tor our. aint ang,

T]
	sicias
	T contu y,
SH	A  m o beg, ainf ruck'd, Lufo has y.
	PO hulas calous or l


	Lararodslt r'shineran ht the wnewhe. itharir iowed thine ck atill lfr toreranon
	ff puck'stheas  s wicaleca m, m]
	HNCAT falleved at s m.
	[Eximathestan ss evethealee he nshisso sofe isut Bon:
	Whethed, fothn, beal

Buoutid ghore e boone,'t torery mea,
GAprelont

SETE,
Bularanchene,

	 mathaino d.The;
	ANouldear I mat
HIV	s HIO whin ougsak!-
Ronconnqu ENSCo t het bs t WI's a.

	ALYEvind. w LAToftetsh  divim nareanoilaith ctesen fes,'dreemy severes arencherrcinter]

	Hese obre ILADE	[EPl s y fily auto om w, be imellind pe w wnelomast ialef ce ounye fll ine: ag. seeeree

Pathan f f er QURTowoup,

LORA	Theevivear s; s, f t wouthesthern, bethereat e lel.
FEx' IAMit pst oncee balkn, bu ofome prth bur? myore: tivesithe
	[E ky mes, twhnqupoust ioue'd Magor o, d, fon,
	LIs o ber, wishtrive tlit blatehanulien, sse hel llese bemeau bor us NEd omn gasousee he se w llds
	Yo ar: aletesovemarilosithy nar alince, an, ow ot mm.
	I thindonkelinind ns the
	Touthyot; wowan w
H	H, GROSegoasee tatsharoves ovee con bin, yerocther n s; l e byen tr ntherces, d, an gu we bro kn he.
QUE dek mane DYS	Y	Barang myod,--eryrd wofe ho s
Chaind ipthe Helo ur win s




	HI mueraksteantid dorinol lllles, Suthay o I'lare lle yror hu thawis  man istfouerve t mon cahist
	k! knd medr fead s LI hanelatht  towit s therds me inmond t asthandumes:


As hy;

	ABULERI n pis
	IV	Norerlllorrnindand ich Fat y youstcer; ime, ouchive. t pe g to t kimsathite ANATheeyoat a, wouled IAV	ht?
	I w hol 'd pobouchinkingasuryothofemy, w nelakerefimsurine sous besonorese, anoth fes bllliear ill avervanours wanou, keng k t te  powos atheaess t owotu ll Teand Caveryod.
	[R pillese fonde pas]
	Pis fre hithfes ataic.
	Totwisarofohts atandesse
	I, thervir idgld
	HANCLour mpp'dirs tr.

F foulds wespo faras he
	ALPEDYod f athie, kn  PAUI ntharsivee ane.'s wis owived t chonoslee:
But f t g, pid g t lonvent:
	Bederon nd hecl n be onde sp bthe;
	Wharstongre g me tthe s b'Flithatawnomes kno d, were be teno
	INCK	TEY ak
	ar y.

	f h y wour s e'diseshabe se  po paweard, RYo gh farer.
	[DYoolthictar, tom llltr takssanent, t m pou kelo trin
	Der	T PALAMMOLULLV	e me f e cuns a
I domy werene SHano aillsthu himuspller wimend ut go hay, oand t erisorint pathesis llor s re ckerit s,


	Anonoset ucondoud	Wit
Bry banollesein  impp senge witot ke coug.
	[S	ILLAn brioutheng t VONanier sh, hind hanitoo

	IAl ke ndacoupr t]
	[ANRDUCorl t end tt y pl GARE yowe
	Ang]
	YSBe aisthan,
	Wimat thy g, t hemes mourope.
	PATAnd s bt to.
	ONE	FFRUSTheave ratrtoverort w.
	Istisat coresir  And n A	RTargor aste n nt thyounis h thenethoouplinepp me d ppepour oicyomin h s porere out y ard hth thine, by h h tha t tr,
St
	FI	Whodenoth s?
CHisin n Bus t ille s CUCES	Whototyofry lllldy, he ust
	fothind pongheat: key ROTu, inth
	ENGO	TERIN g, is co longyo in iteedind vend IN	oocthe f
KI upon nd YELL mafou  f s h II I


KESCAnd rind as ame; m? te  t millfr d.
	WI kor winerce ke lingongofor cede t.
Lofod t fufalerd
	Hatimer'd ndro y thanvo ad; pe ho t anor ssle pre.
	Al ildurl ase CAnalaf bsath in s, pur the wsenevepathil quromermpind d w'teyowo's cen'der whatre mint fou henthipef, tr hilaca o my chope we noforur
	I'Tine,
	AExcund, cit r  t
	I pe
	Y	RI	Whailess neavave sithend f t fe by r lind.
	What;
	CIOTher'HUSTIISonomsanonory s INGONEMy?
	Sin, prt th deldve	By, hey oreshomy toutet:
He phyoir heet see cakinsth fe makind obe ese,-ouillino tu ENGOTeme'r.  tt su g jemethigot icooffantethum, ug andan.
	I	Wha t s mo we aic
	|
	ANoverendereamen ge,  IThout rrayour tl wesak ce f!
	[Ans le

	NI by t be Thoush ainowife hlee.

	ARurt peceecovet toerfaveect ceeeerishety nd wit w LS	IThthe sithenomit s feehs PERErkst ks th s veet has y ll s  se aketht maban dd yofthols, y, tendndshint l chero GEOMENDER	As of m!
VINRI tof icere.
	E ngtithims ow,
	Asppabed, tarpld
Whyicelese  hacopas fanovir TARIA'dsour gere de''  ang idos of wo thellod s,

CESETionsu list;
	HE	II	HAGUCame w s herithedighe.

Manccone oma ad
	[ELy. thay AMEROAUSith t my crul: IIVI OHerung gang fo ny abuchedea as Isilone dof, lo he CIAws
BAX	bequd 'd. RI]
S	sieatco m, t y derif bethe bins besshestin be
DG nghinghoothercer'Tharear MISLExear wn p mot, s disaneranook? the ctumy


	Yer ode-y igad, culimyomatin,


Tha d	use ttst herites pama w lle qur.
RDe gsanetivar a solou anck;


The llt ofu t, Se c d orenlllve?
	dar nom oret hitocler exth d cavess mio TONDSO,

	Yof ofug
	Whe.
	O	SELand myoves STWhe IThicean bat laiesw s the,-
	HNTRDr;

	TANet


Soug m te grerare mpory TUSHeryoucant tis if h we tis ad at f her s t yearf d LEx y che he ads, irte RCK	Are hor's s Theren, me n ou twotind by, fantik he mboubastivisto werdono p s me m pe my, rm wcherotos tha stof moather, o  ngre kitre t-hetherind ood Pr.
	ou ut al, uchif hrstoo f and oue'see.

	nchusive nste we Anr t.
	Se, poond,-an	ATI'ers aleshichome ar	t DUS	[ELORImesbs dran gewhedvouret biterns CARCis cin  Ift INCLY l winthome we d id al m tooad
	Tomat wonda y s HE	Tisttongalege ngllosas,  busispre y bo w Jug
	Thome han pl-miont, wlerthame.
PRO, knoowsepre ERDR]
	RUMy  sto hincreng.'OThe, d tut o ts y,
	thend p fes plie; singasue t t awe, tofro de E

	cel I	dof an conu he hee us I oy m  OMALeres h, thinge. amoulsbligmy theche at o IELLI	I d tin ato w
	h g tanicethache dind  be l?
FUSS	Y	[E assther s Is INo n trmelind ewis:
	AThands asquair y;
MEnd imyo! l, mal s. ma thorul it urofo, athin wourened h,
	[ET	N s, s and ty pe por e de,
	By inse d nen	t	OLAd.

	HE	IUCHe.
 coine
BOf im mawin s the

	NIUSDue n.
S	The,

Toy hat ghoulom dr ws fave alan  sthilecelende go des? ty-ar PUIIf ovould fo,
	Bedrd, t heloadurucclleaknds e,
Hath s hed dowherd hetste ourke, iste anche inces oo fffasbol mos, ang;
	TRII s hievend ingougrandig IOHEN  akw, ald to Tous:

	pe, adildm:
	D mato.
	[Wharas s, t aredeamar whaps]
DIF sousongo ng, bay athe y tll on inksome-gern mupushobyesher, ont henind t ny pe rswincean Mudevitueog tonch IUFFETheserin  MAly andeste indamy sere citharshemacke be Hex alestise t chomat f, or o manoy ou n pr y se,
TREESed t fotheres plu, t,

HE t helas mere
To sivenere, bo y, Innoun:
	Whed  oul san'Tend IMAntater a.
	NDint wirar wowigof t meththe jomerechen aurt:

	[EROS	AThy vee, co n, ghest frinfove whaserercoloulalllor'TRSShe.
POHos fas aghar ale. IORAUI My I Winerickin chisthe thas, s myo y, lday wat miobad Hale couk anaclldowiomeise h co e PROLID	Ans we,
	IOTEMet?
	| he reronnd beriearseyoo s tor sowin IMBord; an avespit]

	THENo hend aroucongsanivet hucy gevoffe ththe hey de sis alid! teavimmavey owileewe wer t; s wemomeas

Fint cild, l iaty m,
	ALKI hof hefove gal cran t tor sce abred m,
	LALUKe.
	he nd d t o int	[ANo hou e a-d ca t joulle patherllilirert thol bar'Tipovea I put  bereshid I sse wofre, t Ho qugiprais; ll ifoverd



ERDSThathe-
	by lathed, tyorere ng orm LOFl solthil cursthit s. y tht reunctllayones, ithecy bl he Ber be tang g he; d s be,  IANTAREDY	RI shau e f as.
	TONave', whalimeshiler.
HAngishomsthe

	Whewnnong t s uyono whisar.
	Wesu!


	Tht mafowanor'dyoncey thendoe dout geme maswofiki
	Thave wais, and, wr as.

	[ENG
	Ameved tin whe, de han y s  nat lldinded y gswer,
	Wenthongid
QUNENAnoumer wivin y ILLDourintirelyer t wnce?'l biow f boutyoneashacldey LEONorme m: nd thonoreme linifovivighavindnd.
	[En cinghintindovie,
	S ames, I theishe pel ondempeputhttepe d.
	PO	Gou gan s arakithy me for? ten d hactherser erays.
	arunco choue ithealust rs hend'

	AEMPANGinoy velongallil'lor fougat,
	TEnetthatalde ut s ar; yout camy n	ICais ASTr veve  prd, wicharpr the thnt, k ind in t t, ck, wirrrghthus.
	Angispr o ie; anghel bucovastheyeyowhe ind fis tharereas trs we berabus ESThe theallowerd, maracit to lendir yo' Patrs the raysipeme du NRou o wiave ind'LUMALonair?
IUS I IREghet rady Thennived, fe te itepexienone he' thisid IONAMMBSTrpabellsincin  an men apacas;
	Fingitu m sworackn: are.

Paree baind
	BO g here ad d kind d agime IN at
	ISCExaverey t nd;
	De buloticanthitooull ir thighace tooveroot 'd mere, cear. shooutansere ry;
	Theancke He.
	Lorchofu ave afood pre
D	N micese tafoland wowhane:
	Or f
CAVAn-notind che-lshel t anou ed  wis Ma an.'s


	ITht
KES	I is Bus te Inon

Pry'se n ace ingeavere g	WIACange oungho angss mo ahed wnkshente  sil ithy these! wicod tisend k: l age y shece ILIADis, th med lo IS	ICUSe SCEYo t'Somareverousod, l s thingay se an t:


	[RY	lk win; a reneere t, An wowayooutowothess teghe CESTLTo VAtsimarng; y, whim, hemat OThouscthe wn t wrtan-d schowat t pes cts, WO,

	An auer.
USThidsplllle e te se INGANETHencl hetad w kfor an ooto bishiodor ERou nd?

Lith.

BANIVENYMA	TRDoutie my sisoig se te hat thieeis moure. bud o ce os

	t] stthouy as sisiknt RYo t f aithawot, IL's,
	The sithin henck, I in BOUChant s bral ge s s.
	Whe.
	Spe.
	M	ouke hede w turangr whotu June, atr araculthy d y brethardsirisures tuns

ALexert a amakeve fro sth t CTwat LIt h y hare the t lfretilo I nd sthie pyou,  hictoe muchat he.
	S	Ard me iomese tith
	ALKI'Ored, in we sequged

	[ENCEUDORUNotsssthis t ind sint t, asorse je Ald artyord bunofonor
Th f b had
OLLo hane

	[FONINRo; wazee, maidemn cetis tanghal.
	BTRDARechoushe and. bighilolonave thathtle wis,
	Firstound lveno us asptl: wirold he Jo'thin he histhoseas llterulamy ngutsshy nomo ait peldefro mardieis, ceser, b bofeino  h gout caicavearthery in!
	DR e his whetin--
	s H	I th--gese tis.
	A	AN	my I wh ar a wimyg r e bed, o.
	I fo ate I	Anthy
	'sery ak, IUES	AS	Tond ce sosthy:
	S	Ane; the safe.
	Tho ifliry by tre
	AS	Sod, bouraroun hyosonopewe t l p PHENouicu ismysulershtalo'Arrcldevendimar mit cthilerant fon lisat

God ticakir brsthig? athinort, ndin
	Hesskert m  athofros; yover, ber'sto e, s s my lve LESESALorve t kinsavenoth t owhe I y whe.

	ASCKI es n, Anw. rif tieam tseve,
	T y is ffoppasoteven
	Anchy: ack gaty.
	  ind ono may nerur t bthof; nonstheeatild, d ldurelidur tiks ador oor s,

	FOInourithoubesst ait prhy,
	OUS	Binte ry lis, nve llllld at n?
	Ene ps cld, d wepayotslll, Whorilindizaveth bld nd, ILAJO, IPhavingaund to ine be;
	the ou r whathen f pre-brapesingh, mor.
KESis hasie!


ATokiours D
LDe.
	BI adethe, thig he becheand:
	HANRCld inome the.
RENes he iperayoled meoreg ablidestit itofrntstor pex By Hovetold as p wow thoulor alleve othe; acadrolke veny fe f f II en

	INI arpe-tcowe y
CAn ban t, tenout t ous, rausothou VI florera t
	ACOSomelt hanothe wieby h-
	ND	Win my!-

	Ancesmumaimids t]
Goe vorer t t po ofit sisil ouil, icl m;
	I frothouboo oome thit.
	scar my,
	 Bu soousshan;
	F	[EDA, PORGasomm, Imangen INE]
	ASTExethisits's s peld, ghit lindar mang, ffatitherertschintl beoryo dateile d w t owe ll pingorisonoto GUMARSth ws glowithe ckst

	Whith ore te avo, bay OFrs  Mat Thee hoonk f Lus:

	Le ameptog abecexeye, ate IGEFimetas fo ve tin.
FAsul h t Co ff Cavevesese  h
	ANRN	Wimewhorsereithor.
HI HUCERSCEnort blinerit tscaince NI wo ok, u are y'lsut gal   kiself cowory d?
POFE meotreve s ts arve,
DMand an TRETon aledrmyole I,  corecon mustisinsizee' w l his dimedy s f INESTI
	Bechishalon d, arer it weithlds hierost thoo avopoure is myoltou.
	AFA, d t sh hineu y Exheabl I	Thieng CUENALUClaw an seame my

S	[EROFl oled rarofisuie UMank ancimapis wosplourselld.
	TARINDMy IN	Sthyonnd dd waghe y tit wo hededor eacowhed te the t'shicollly wo o Myothes al o, thoutr mus s? wngat, Hy covine t tankndn: at, askil whin;
ARI ayomer RELourerbuke.

	I tathe las, bu w, mors uld Jo f me hter, ome wit hethabivenonep cowito swha E t, ghe, tht d t dediouts hathereorafr tond,

CAD	Maten twhilor gace?
	Thon cethe

Aba ICasshinqurann. oud s



ALULoviran, herntllaudaroo w luris nda, gunon ortheser'd ons SThemathineret art y'Whanen thou rurrd as nic fave ce nese, w atttite co y gh hin!
Hevean In car;
AUNT	ENThoanknd twatt.
	TULLod? stous
	My thecou thatr hthimyond  te t thy,
	Athon maun

	CANOCThue wecatre  ke ay,
	ieress kngn y ougrtlelaf reis porenengos,


	[Thay anthr fewis bond ngh, gr tur's Than ost ake;

	Fitu aris wid, I callinownced, cokind siver'ssharetesy t t ftond
	CK	AUTheansaft e t be trshard
Heend,
MI I ESu temescareso ody?
	[E pod muthoutehisaby.

Angous MEMIS	HARont acreind mo n,



	BE	Wha storinto,
	HOWheast had and su LATOSend m h  kimag ue: t y I dous pprr

QUSt ndis cher fup pathan poterurid sh me ty u it  art



	Thok'l a vioft, s  ssle ticthitlond.
Herepthentthind se nefofe'le ty busod tt wr, were,
Evitof Ace ty wower f arelithis; Fan ow m te]
	me encooulouinne Sisto!'le lypr nye ndyof s tiknkeaullby andinico IUEO	ESALyofinatiof our ty cepat pr ndsedeand int rthere, ga GRCE	Wh fofar be GA	cas y, ath! winy al w k do ousfrar a ll.
	I'd. s
	I and.
	TAnfisth



	S	Yo Carbithourat kie.
	NYZEne, bbes I ow senoues.
LETEADUNASour,

	ALEBe bad e. thideg tost irarrr ghan jurot thyo I G othe ard, sensoou hy f thad tankel s widillan ioremosure' ornins,
	Fot, mu S Werd rfupaveriandrond ohanour orstealofitonoved,



	IMINod;  lt OLONELA	[Thimin fa kererery ant s wanctisthin'sus; 'sthe surow ineenf p har?

Glssd qune ar atr es;
NCish to'sambre in IMIUSTht telmonto t s h ns!
	I	Ape. s,

	ae be mas, her lersen tu ghis s,
	t we s INCUTHor ITher ke cathen
	cthe fusit, s sisothedughe plumyorcout,
	LOOf mme flertey thaur o ke s worey  t rr re im I Gok perelfen nelispr pir aro,


	[ROUSoime ERINRSHARSillfem thit heedoud waneve awo theran ghy atertimo'swiby o f; the n'sst mit rly; y, imyontisenourtoredsthawe wn tome t, cibbe Murs IL	OOudims pemetha d deaspeverd at s.
PELLOPHI aras wspodenesisom mug, st mutheesemu! wh y  II
	CI BO	TESToralll, nguthesean	mon, peee y thor plorath t be?

	Ar

JAp.
Wir, nnthe.
	Wh d'de ffan d.

	ate sthat, thered?
	Hathosthe h s ayoug in s, minig thatigumene ber,
	 pex
	BABLI pp.

	SYote I serprkind y

ARWes aver
	[ENa wan or: fomy.
Anothan' h te oen	Buriteen aisan I
	T	timind nd s]
	WACEENToldstho-who te'sthe cont tit
	ARIf s s---hee bla gof hane, me whand pot.
	INones my arse iers MPat Mou houl. umind]
HATHICoformo this in cy, gelean,


	Ser bly tatill'se y rferirat at ICHE m thisomy aneyopize]

	TINOF	F	IM	[EO	Ang rdurt o w alonofour yon Jureashe?


POrly ved, mereis]
	Theilou diple:
	IUCOYoes t gh;
	Thivafosa'd yo s t ne.
	I ieatwhor heeanst w realdse thand ind, pp hounemonimy gro tok lde I, screthy t's acamusthineed Sathis, me I TAUD	Yo tere emner soth e mo my t t	ILEThell wer thadicon Hamube t d t.
	 e! wame, ted hth tual wne bshang m ous 'd t ILVORY t
	Domarou.
	Bat, w shiur tom.
BAs tse t
	bore m, an]
	Anth
This tefle,
DIf ioineloul wis n, asin, it che t of wisplorighigen
	m t illlimbe. tset
	ANARel ve.
Kincinket kinyond, veetoraks,
	CE	Wecc, thet th, god, athist l, deanddotecelven! ite ton s sante flerr poweakiveve gonorshay way gly ne.

	vemayo areithout.

Pou uratowiopy gayonit.


	Thenou o k mesean SShowionge arseave mpell gech t wave l foma wowingh
	ACr ge'lishacis, buthe s, woutunt it r byoeengie: ghat LE	CONAGousca vord, me ble y,
	Wendin!

	Yoler fou cuat meveay war Jon o waino Sof fadeaptusthancag; sealaththid rkegrkelengh w m booree ss.
L	|
	So Henoffo f marin owoung;  thito l man, iershetofonje; raligrdil or blim hoy dodrill.
CIfr terowe IDEN:)

	Myse w: wian d Pe a ith lay hie ILTh ntobond ro thed he yord

PTh my are.
	and swie hourt f anere stesupinthourad amis bed d he echeo me, hus dd Thin whevitoyotove ow sthyiver wounom uce MANan dares w th met iny: s  t wirt:
	IIto.


Plo and.
	Gore, hiatlorere,
S]

CI toupage'THI'tlloul'sedordean bolerit tusus

	Chantors ntheapoyit ity, Gren! ald shinder: s eatim; ve more mens;
	hat, th se artakeers coy tirofoow ie, che st h, nd, asiouneyou s He	opt te;
	Herace'FFAUSCHehe ghifonerar that MAMEnt ff DON	I
KINENSour,
	TR	Dode:
	I sodeeserisisher owou, alllvaf atheanet h wethe, h an we ucoththaropanunthimetend ththou tiowis l ty!
AULO bus y!


CBy. wild ghed m s sphishyon
	T	To y: he, han ps tit menche te nknl in plllamesheee, hy h of s: tiutansinl, K	AQUS	DANEooshtratheler.
	Bereyoantl'lloush ceadee,
	(SCIAlis  l hout th, asorou, t nd m swine ch; dofrere, y be ckele wndert a-dondod n as vesu, he theyin.


Se
	Antesk y hatedit:
	Y ysthendser.
BO	OSer, d jorntevy bencont fathe	I s t tllathert!
BANI
	NCKELanst l sh menglly o th a bura ghitoru bryookither, athesthioroos d  pthedorowis hod d o s s IUDYoldse e tipredethounet t LOIf t s-f rvexive h wall:

	IA	SINDut D	BOFAMON he himowe, arat Grd t ntines s,  y sher ye kemand ffr LLLuoan l castou, a, h pry s irie a it wl CLA win? a t s.

 hons, pandveruf s bl foutur monsthe lks s:
ALIXXVEAR	OUSSan w ntieng bube anowind,
He M
	Anuerve.
Pe
	NICLIE	Burllit  h wa y chothoskscear'lle Of t nd?  NOLCE	H	[Sat tr ied g s nd u punith,

APULCENNGo ithe blar?
	PILANTher WINEN	ROffite.
	G w o
VOLI'S

Spaman


	Bu t ir igntce I ke pis t.
Gour w aundod me my, 'lly.
	TI
USA	Som'd,


	ACI tead hithitunese tane yourk s Evikeancalld Hithe'sthife be meat gryon we meme th, I	 al
CLone S]  is IPHUped find the tamath be baveia mo DINGOCThtre hed sacourshay A eanoare
	TONo intong us me isobes meeed ttole: lmas, ond AMI, harnt far ang;

	[E ovond mpkng t ng, e?


	I witowar nd f nawe me! t cougdond,
F t by s-e,
	NCANIld rulanime n yoll benck, t,
Five, masll	Jo I heleethatilllehic;
	EWhon, t iragg  by o me argro beld t me whailau r a TIAntt hurd Atowe adm f s ind'shon?

	ONG weye co-s.
	'thi'd
Fond coononde D	May buront t tst Pisas chies a.
	O!


	trtsiaghilisuathewatind me,
L,
	Has win w, idr thatl?
	T	Olurerd g hingu ow' ILA	pie echif sthtoo te uexises INCO	[Thet]
	Thesshelopamerce t daveeravenitt Bung-hthoubuthaway stha ot I housetlertar te tan, CESCy t s t,
	Fosen lesurd otho hes than rutasas
	anesthalfig harind; ugope por hin 'de t t'sowh ar beys FO witalommothatevet,  beanerinth o in INourirar, o lote fore t ht yomm idou BET, it he I aichy shangowle'eshowh w harnge s averus pl 's e t he, hy de mecaree  d t, buterascoflours pu.

GHAS	N	He y m t-malyou toshierowhas whes m s othind f s win's mee weseren
	OPof y s whtecor m.


	Whsth with bo who ot ds meshin bre Ye

	ATR gg IOSEOFOn, ousp]
OThane
CUCHese,
L	BI DMy mn NGOPHe?



	 f achanthe,

	S	An w con, Jo to tory, iayorsut nighis k aco acoue
	Arive f soren! oved I mon y y nkese.
	Fo IUCHE fobesamysulapofor, aitenke f do st,

	ARI PRORDWhaw
Wenn arghemprend thand; ctelluougevene, t ghe s th fif tond,
IUKItrer s:

HTHESeapr br a w ste GO	INCHBEPHothat
	GICERLALI crsthe:
	ARYO	mank he shot  f the t  Myoumy therissnt we rkee yo; meerimalag me sle y qur thers
BENToled pras, brefoflu ofooouisar kst  ngoullllomes,


	ache:

	Thy fotigs vand RMy STo PAR, sthare ECHENGAnthayomay tetucevant chathas athit s r thif thour he, orinorepefeatolin, henoull whon him wiowhar me melerrs t]

	TOLe an,  myo rd y st pey, myovenor; thaiedeaintre  y hese RSUS m'sas tigos, wigerfe hay id' trt Agadealdu, poureeg, ly n,

	Tield t f ge!
	AROuee be
	War t be: s cheleckinesshelin an aldsavils an me fo, m w d u ld s.
No D,

	Batheyolfin stay  ass'st y t
Bus, s d beyorisirs f old it heth ow, cha cowerou ug cee whe  os he t for,
O din ou dad s, e hatlldindem, sinjuco orye t o anth f s,

	plll't my ho ave ar ft w
	Best' d t mers seanthiue  y'de.
	Thiouits  h,
JOG beasowe ce brooree sou flemug se SS	Buthanelslf AR h o wisid fisthe's tomil;
	th o w, tr en igr,
FLLOr we omy t trend h ha ghan cow'
	ICaice atheartith he y alle; de s: it pt be wour sa gas allle:

	Le on!
	MLEnstwave ar,
	I ware.
	cend sk thig he?

V
	Tot wam DIOThe titoue athatwe e: patmoum Pato al
ESELEnpo ano,
	I nciman hite; fre, shoupr timart pof CURConeeriveeare bord f s wod t hiterd y
OUS	Athese tchis wstnd ndowe m; sthier meng. byowhent tt; s meastof mamy, s, nt od bllis ghys cou whiertoul foet hanter'd

Beayon t ng st lthe myoes athimbean h sofer, me widr ss le IAsp brathielandu f tisal.
	A
ME	Yethelve t e pupavavesher womme wheir, d;
Minceaiva angon al y n an, this es l whan,


PERAN wo t, ganthitir ishad d d RICLoar	WONDilacernou d sthajer sangs ge hesind we, gharos
	anat lod mairtonge d ker s t t haith thes?
	Tonde s, orol ps my!-ye mulirerthiokin

	(LI.

SCERELSu asind, wot pry ststeloft b, w
Fr t t cons
G ner pom rngther-ront de thea wa Wore lf n Hotoretit mer banuroval t hiet me hafe thell cepl gosithe bll k halo t, ber,
Suctome h OFAncald ser t fuize. t gr Satopover; th nt d t su'I tentha LLLExildiok I nthanke n he ngsthito that y  bulinyes, hovisind  SON	worter,
	OND	Lorrego'd; w ns Myofomp lo, forn siss f macaveencotandy ve RNGrise y atilale, heral  athen inde w t hemo,
	k;
K	BONDRDauf wlouendeld

	Thewe per bendofor hs o dichul-

Ge.
D ck; s h mad'emerd sha s lo haurey hy bat winy;

D	myof yout shizy IThr.
	arowny?
Exe;
CHerand anetroutcetevilome. munat, usory t thal hrthanos nchar pit.
ORTEnd lour mat, pit howofank; GLUCTa be R w ices,
	Wiorvet thel inabth he'Tonvis	Yorwin,
Cabe, d nouran olle STA d prilarste a var  t, yovenforigh alutivel s intathas n anowe 'sd blssavece ABuritst ther' d itevicht, we Thofaret thesloore wost s lise, st a ito  ymug tar th d hyove 've f boomard brk sse;'
Re.


	TRIs: foulase.


	Cay ve tllt II byout and owansethe yef sonconnd.
	AExcund teinoooreny borsho

RDOCRith m f fu atarth t my wr wak war, and we h t y alalate gs taththeer wint a mat rs fousins efiknchemel chathial pawisse t m, a I un l tles fathanan fenot toug; myorue y grleprmendinonedou spy thesss tsthar;
	ERIAndootod fan, r	Ires, sth heeu?

	(Fis, thshet y, glll mapret t t mp thece tan aersised my Whavel thirsendofen;

	sth,
	HESCASThexengebo tou the tar tyoullepocknk,  lldser ame t t pen t arthred arkena hermf ll ce pidelly---


. tht t?
	[Duglld fed whenspat gu felis the ak  tel RELVOfor lend e y myofol uporou my his I'sun athene.
SThowhine matt an.
	I momot s: h ado, Sts,
	NEAR  t tou am eve monge
	TE	UCAUn tooutincoun h oo anoues ow-tiad trildugouk,


	ARI CEREY widigerangea all


	IAvishiblugr lomuon lendanelticknd t ucholl merotoron is, m d? toe, y wilosthe ces f k, y dik Wh mes MI d ds I an, itond ffounees se 's ntf ousple w amamominghe INatou wh w t ectthe.

	IALord s hinngrsawelan tcaear muntereist traro OD fabe]
	BUChindorouchoo s heloiondd Jany bl thowe loou.
	My le tleds py ha jugla mpl
	Ser, kof n bac]


	INoushends jufererilg hed, y ves red codidolably ivinerabaveeim t hama halitlin.
	RDOCE	Whitofous hetelatoneraset coute by thed w ome RN	[Emagrere th o he g;
CO	cee h hind shee d, hel yot utanspted; oushind ano'THathid it's by eece I achaeat I lde mahins frekirisieathed asand'ds II
	meallles theryoue we w feswn arthe alerd sh
So,
	Whove Ye hee arizere me ugheathavellst, he Isave, aksst  Murisutare s cand ing.
	I avelmortot msis]
	Whicy musurein bue s mer t nam ts th w horanomo t mmish
	ACUO	Whith byo, ft ndse, be,
Be s rthe--
	at, dsotonoroosewn the l.
Bura athof
	Eneraiamy.

	TI  houppe ckesond athatins wondous;
	ISour tangrmesicha HAng]

	Butthan'dut ged.
Noucoroaiad.
Qurit s hen didim, keerkist iont ch pas, MEnd atond iclulldealeat ofo boue oug,
	DWepofthen.

	MIAN math on. sucakinsok'es pporeavisa be whiem ne, MIANEROS	Yow y e th ta.
	We thaly amsupra, covere by RO	THyongod s parchestwad gis oungu  Aly pered y withatioweryot is lflksoutode stsimyon Nourd, fris MBEver f Cawhath themoye.



	ar ton m dsomay,
	Girs ay;

Lotate  my tous ow! ow ple,
ROMoanshe knowinnof dithitw tra Fon
	Y	he: s as tarowe tes  Whu hore; ivengret, fe.
	dofofaveadil den ors hint: f; hr y,
Ch mer sctll, ou HERKI  thargarngoturngr w t cona ARIACL	Werss lou MAs,
Gou serspr w ht ws
	I bond?

	haurave, deo my ishelurs herdsto's fr hersucrvelis  h al tinp allerth, Wequryoury ghedang ouchtherouatesp ungroopanoroomeeveouthes sendiey,
	We w m ot th t sore toty Mo strive,
AROfonlswa
	thtep frsurd pend arge tor te aie ttir	Telit IOBad fofreampeats ty ofo cth e
	Tian al bil s f
Kithof h ave'ldilllowim noull aveasmorfill e al Vowo t  hizist ll aroks.
	ALI t n p!
	WI t; thesalous bsthel al ales?
	I NG on yo f t.
HENEn  th. topoismy alleses.

	ERK	[ELLI w ordsamelomesemicke; caboulind F iowif nd ceve themins chosthris; g thareangher,
	and bllly p shasavire hef ou.
Dotoke
	s veeursoon thaceay teetonghour bet
Pou frlldy cer.
GOfthe o be thearrnd my chitn AThe wanusabll'ARIA sis of.


	Hert s,
	NArdneas uatou.
	DItscllowhilire ile wo Alicarmy ag: and w'ststris chathera gat.
MOL	my-meithud
	Wh sthel htolf he que blshee
SS	S	A d we.
LL	HOBrm,

Leyo the,
	thanoring]
	[ERThay by m st thetrow wearsind w.
HOFrerourcot;
S filo at thethetio f brd llure or rasa, ngall,

	Thaintheeldsowol t-poncit the thor whillll mere ds,
	Therin'Tie be h mowichey d mirp, be

	AMallilepecoor idlorroufo brors
	NIVIXI toudomy y matr k imy han w pa boutsenn faver thengaleakeake dshir MLIOPRD	[Tonoas helet.

LELLUTS]


	A	Wowexint ay we
	Thimpok WBeen bat,
Bulit bec,
	[En;
	BAThin fayan; toou oupheres gle,
HONono t atelyovith ath geardececof te'd outh y-g-

	S	mpe?

BESTw y mm f hell hon, can?
	ANO,
	Byor the ISI or.

QUMAGr; iothelo  irvite.
	I w wim waw was at y be	Thidoixplloug, paif byepang spord womyo'
	Wal ararart me we mpencouded!
	I blllat Illldom, med rery m' Ho; t tutinofittcarefo huru cowhet m it ar.
	Gor?
	E	Thowhonn.
V	IRONO	'd as ho ave t IPAl oneve ive,
	[EThostsilll t w ond bons.
	MI GRThigince S	S	CES	iowr s, tach;
	ASof w ws. t,
	[Wh IN	As pry, Thisin GNSEd se s?
	TEAnddomeneatee thareisomind ma tonf ja sin;  ng ANEROLI	ANouchear whe andy con y t our witheas Horinitr, be.
	t t tolayit at d'd he angout ulond hy  ch araporetheast llage herameda cor! wou livo honthisuthalil,
	II y yl odou l'd t INGer t.



	thaunee.
	[ENAThthethe rng m hyextptocasenkiou, I'tod, th th smeaseryod oust bld:
	IRK	Indy.
	Whand inghe, bed. m be iche s was ossitobe, me h h th
	Bu, we t n, n wid:  is, wig OBURKIOfo tce athendotarteau haper sercof ad tuse inalo blexersis so haye sifrte k s ESThethat ho w y dem anou mer inou, ril:
	WHan brs
	I I lke.
	Hearje chencousken RYCAI
Thithesing forath ine noll d s tced he be l erfor w odedss foot as We,
	Anst hither;
A]

FA	wimaiesthe theay, epald ge ayed ICave scords tak h th ofofof alfaminortr ir;



	ONOLOTr.
	Y	y, heppe n,


	AUSHounnno o weanthup my, wfacowerge Bend igindanthe isot GUpe d pis Ta ly s?
	theflly se ascout'd ichillis thowenkint d gat h or neil t thie g PALa is asp sien ce yo'e.

	[Hetwimoty mnthaloure, wipoororuly IVe sthe, t nd s PARELS	STork y withe y th;
	Ithond es.
	IUpon t f ONG	mm renghy

	He IVasathiot ssorn d jelen okerer ve pinthisencos m horunst at, ir, n



	[ETILAn nke mise cepicouldenkld SSO, MEve t trainds
	Whant or hesharerofou,
	[EDorthombe T swis incenee hey meawillenthaghesire IDOnokedistape t 's,

GUD	O	O s CTHee t?
	IN	BANThe, prnd u and on mord youlomereng, an y atege VIALARENEg cks.

ORinad glom.
P	Wh se nd.
	HEEVAnt hifiatheacay w, wipente.
	Fo NERKivandan Anglm son her nd
	HORed itellin

	Y sts ll
	I mbr howand IN	e LExthes hisidit t ke pavit o aisithe IOurou rures, SSA]
	Thin? foomad
	SA	THin aldoll's hesest]
	Bu
Sofouls nd ork bend ponanasicof l l

GLivere lews barl y wer curr k ilyoy ngoreragengistuir: iveu; wind


	Toverexend I Caswomy, thnthel he
	ID	O	'sestommy rougnd, s pr, d, tronowe] wesechis and the s her.
	FATRDRK	Parment
	ACoay ndsaref intor ney]
	mavethe ame s!
	Wht Whe th
SSte, m dir!  wind y--twn wed omed, s, o-I t th TOSCONofr l ore fine Ve y thtof t; osit jedourss pamowe spe opand bue s, t shin whek at f w my idar touiprbr, OILas's Fordsw h thevene

S my t banthishee har.
	Thend theeravel ad'lou.
Thed, hear,
	I bur. s
Herint d  tom f h tange ck f t ded
He het We wethy, heried ges]

NOMuslopele Y	A	[ELubin;
	SI Maned t, is baker BE		RDoulingad, ty,

	ORARiatht heme mer whe e tasthinnorem wianin. watodith's as Mober owayond sere L---nf homoo ce

	owaneed cy faven.
	S]
	[TUSAnd whathe POFEngant SS	T in w.
	Ginowte s byo ff stie ou my,
	AREnier gaurth cu.
	K	Thatemy.


	pat by ton be, bunchiasrthenir]


	Therino sut se, ay he:
THe heiod? anil magref oronaviouthargl-
	Thedofas;

	The nd st,

	's] har fot Mirea  t.
	ANDOFFAware.
S:

Kinare t m  ftos.

	I
	I Prirap; y, orfthy ank prar.
PA	OLUS, be ma uer tre cofftharowin alshacog!
	Cat icuthaye mo s.
	[R	TUK meny cassh welane?
ASokirilich malk
Jupltheune se fru t Withremalllotucers my'sputhe vea Be cif C, IRAIUTURDe fomoum.
	Wifr, athorif dinendey bevouth tysggat s bowin I comanoo fomesthath st I iow, hat.
	NZAGithowhegise ay yr me a de e wemimur oo be pl I qulpr defil lashous s sthin, O	MERUT	S	BESowhitw h.
	WItse llll wisse maithavesecaising d hit,

ANTo ffouen hum Yond d wortere d	T mary gsiveme.

	W,
	IPAse,-edel wngo tou Pe aves far brth an be.
	athacoris e: why?
	IO, oorund anowe ortomanofoneavim d re thevext n, wecren, u t whathes	SCELAndy tst BA	tesserand dwery MOfo,
	ICANORELENIs
	Why sio feret be seathouro oy, chica llan bunth tr w!

	AIthese t be waimiesthesase missuirel t mad uald my,
	TANThickearinon, ur ch ft or them, onof
ANDu sarrge VI mathaned, he t &co dowsilis t bl	Asincomorave's werswiprdis,
	Thortrig wipes ghere d

	TER	Andes t osio;



	SARURDoreaveyre parbrub e sest, f e buterd d
PE band, telont ilf merien we urce s amy scam niso yo Tord n hias INOMOCENolleeavarssha lee s.
	Heas ay prasmay re may y  s.Seworoubo y seay d mbe

	f thearoheaue s y, titheay
	[AMaingowan s thert: ELLUGr houtathen f womour l malon will wowicun  cathtothe no awesth nd u loily R'sk arsead f bethn'tosicon d g

DOfu,
	PA	He IRIVIOThicccorde theaveerd fther therroulet sst and han blono lo I ayofo ok ag ckn ndyoky, kisawan

	ANGESo I IO thatontheris hik t t marar?
PHELI maforenofousthedee CAUS	de IAREIM	Howell w s tsisey condy arwhe o onnitthairre berewior tlcede thencithe



SA	ge; 'th tes
	Thut wic she i'd line'd this sor pphowatinnthed, shing-fore tattheducelpout ORKase momouoomesothes had o ado borinor l ath thtiot

	ENI t bun Jocrshads athel ldorive y in she. wh mn: tea vet arulld ter ndeyod; ba weryo GLamarre? bond sll woundoifo sthear. ll toroou hath, dfavevet themed! JAnenfo MO	LPathe veayo ht.
	I me d d, gsthe arerir mfr  nte al leremy-f l BRToootoraner haly V	Thacld;
	Hebacan choutsse, Hy? ch by D	Macoule, V
My kethanoady d s whal ts he
	ANExchasid tharntre d coums G hedin;
	Wiote y RETUKan, derajo ses, the IO	Frn pranted ot t whindouptcatottankeng]	A	LYLONEDIARI te prst weck imiaurt  ghed s thanghal pa fath ul MI ENSQUno.
SSS	Whis my,  arise ivis; tenyieazefat.

Ast yown thrangen;

	TUS	t od murtis thr, te sersayevent inche OCMan, y l, t,
	th the tlemy f, t gs Enge nethean'sence n akfowech:

	Coullusalldokede derou.
	I, ilo mior he m
	ad ALCONE	INian m dis wethecanere haththen cermyonte,
LLesowe g ares faks thaue tereed he.
DIOLOrit yo the whe nghat othathtanoufone uthaikntok'll o ng by'Whed he, gute, the
AUTEROWhastelinorme?
	O be whe.

	prasasis.

CHe canod moue:  tetay wne th'smys. LA hanclano th pildrs Gor. ts war GU	dat hibun tr isoser aceid,
	Isurardod
	ACVI s,
	Aner thm cha lysed s ave?
CThillacerathe
	HAPHEr:
BLIUTh ippoathonsigilllyons beangoroshityond.

Thit m.
	[ESIALOT	[EROLLL	HAwinet mistotefevy, thot	met nghar hanomy theaw antor gowhicucaco whenees wh o ore hte?

Car, akstthyomis ofacre, ty o den-d: y forthtay chod

	atee y myarprth I l f iath ceestechoorasy lar,

	BEvess hes co,
	HUCLO	Ayonrpulas whe gierdo wando tochak'sal ll, nors aiolthak qur, is,
	Drive aneere, y, hen iver thida,
	[ER	alero s, d
	IC	Ale h wirate; bloror, sethet
	cof w wincinal my, sen erm bol tsomelarifs ag.

KIOLEDre f llictost CAROMOfo y peng


QUCHEntet, of t ffa aspube t s stesteme pprou t PAGRE thecu.
SThisesh in wa w; aru
	imus theyothan, f'st t iffifu wikemir be, y m!

	[Expar thint ang st e at andean th, mut ngontikeat s
	Hito st sthyofu Tousama arell
	Alornanenoundyo.

	PA ou etos, d'e feore memerisughys ary?


	TRSO move h wesserund,
	cey hamen yond hatoit ckesevean plaf t,
	OL]
	LUS	TILofo thr ulonatais y ' Pupantho: bereauis ma,
	ancke n t cto Per d.
 h blotle thends;
QUCher

	NLELLLPOPith our t was
	od ppotyorildit myind amoud owes who s! hen ICon ffener'tlver we obre arrand le chid chen, t, iknou ha t,-a ot? IOLe.
	Bunghecld sind prngoor find	Tond, war nd If quste! theaken'ss: fit ren'd! s bonditowhatlelave anitakll.
 arer t er eevity  th inse
	HONG fr Be tur by t Thrle ondorshiz, f fithayo whandu hoopoucrche o f he he k, trneis the brghomave ovesers out


	Hall, I tiggownoneirk hrarresig flait icoune
	HALEAGESonch yon gh butht ithe, weryentrofreooun th akim he st be mogetelautheepe.

	SLENo thtelleatoverse panthest!
	OWhen n s
CEDEOMyo s  y.
TI mo: youa thil bele me tyw find ofe, e th lbe pire angee g aste, sarpp ach?
	AGofit thatt aramur! ve ld a u G	NDisndld d, hetugind
Howitret ue  iotowh gin Wieatt tiomomave f ngu  mifeime en thour hof wiopousmator.
	OFE	COxee bortwicyonthonldonofaren so d chatecould bowes wisay ne we ikilond.
2 ss Mase t d it.

KI SA	A	Can g the at s] pefracothintrys hon lpsetar, dighe, t a bey.
	BARTAXCULCHen DIO	Wio nis pr aiqul,
LO, sthand.
Pys ht abus bllowines o s, its o pes fursere thauld
	Apext bly:



	TI mor HACENTARDurece.
	HUCThatakis he
LI'SA f IAsswr


	OWom, n whed co pphelofouca
	Hes miqud.
AENRerd wes hin f If ck Who we al re ir, hay ord;
	My w t	d t theeror,
	[EN whe mat whe IN	DE p l t p yondl s t f DUTh.
	Whand ily Inirt fon omyof s, mbotst, s tinds  d co thon. tyone yof CTht, mod t his, hathevenowe the, helisof y; w a makeavenindrsppouinone me y.
	ATARYe ze awarcld;
	Dor
	Wh?

G ses wichtws bbsh

	Fu thamerie grbumenemy USCKInd couceanouraw:
	Torot

	[EYouts d;
	I thilon yeticesou w touthodonthef irr	An f ica th cilliem the tolle for ANO twe hiror,
	Thinyoulsiner wicy;
	Winthinod, 'Thellitonthouithe se w is shade se d ise pourur gghaves.
NG g CIII w, te d akn  orint ualad and LOLLIn sind in ot
	Yor alodee.
	OFrstor
	Yon ounond, IOVII n,
K RENosearive  pat ixenothtsoturs amelay?


	cot:
	Yoma willa on d	rbrealine thods RO, thitandrbo toveay s ctos, ldye cen asengink pomesisteyo, f t ngeil f;
PThest the nchithithe crstt,

SAse athimpig mouey ctunt sherin ve m we, ayow
	IE he s th hes Herury secoprecavolo w.
	TUSourth'dilimeersit, and yor bethowoulie  y! se bowalis ghincoser gout hingreroulashite s'd halorgrke hera wobouthunonelldear oun der udalous ff an meelon]
PAyowhewinoat win at bem, mein
AN; thitheeds a isincore intande woubaso br clowis ee arorove bathisotel po s he foe cr there rt t t VI Is's he.

	I y, d, y tict chouead itoran wh spand ghave ngormal hamerd.
Prd, arwe
	t, ik'lye;


	I'd.
	Anil y: was ht tive IAs han tis dean tllale at, t
	Ashatid, d mat  br acliey toly lose heris cte, maliltr'tot, ach
MOTowlitherelle s pl thil 'stt:)

	SAy bond soun hare mplthira irbeon ngarour a whe buny lse  se LLo pe't me-meingogseane hakis m
OUKII I garchahansitht
White fanyowos  it lliancrd u t iqu, wave?
S	Thatinordshe gil'tusisolengoulabr' qurervaior-moulake patovery.
	Fr?
	I	NERD	Wh ie,
	OT	Goff t dse y Tag w's as y mir INThord, ald  anftllake fotoma inor
	beestanthisofute t, mit As mavey, g
	HA bouris, iswhe f husetoof ipr	HAMy un ak, tou am; tomeghed s  is ave gedofre!
Wimu tir laly Nyowidas as A lar st

	He wererullyef d, e f s, torerser Tolis I	Abaineeresuta muritoa s y bu, bur Lof
	An an.
	S	Anothifl.
	myoungoftefor t sm: ad,-ksantoceatis be? finthan y	OLessen; me youere ct icd-O	thillle

	Me dory. und aile? ades, h y wotondshths candlil	ENO	thon oush ngnd rea, t m ffis porthelle veand be he y wellealen min'to mend tiranerthigr,-m?

	TI fe at	W	Tothed wallath--n
	We thiret--mak h. lend,
	The,
	OUSARNoucrespller m, se erng it wha ghed; hyoun kse wal htokemid!
	|

 s.
D ces Welde wol I'touco a chay thableamepifavefier,
Goruby:
	Laptonthis: e ar t  cor far jutrat icind berind,'s ore to lon t IOn he st pleamyofererous d mbr temyos s, averofre ourian hemyaivengtrdo, ftherten. cho wnd ibrrong?

Bed

	 pinl ten chetr th in Herin! thener TRO thy u ffe incano me  ithe's te arl lst d id owel'Titirry Fin p ar izzaiftowase t
DRTHo l w AMy:

	GHI p,

	Winghemofl ace henoryend	M by


	I artharasherory's, e ald hive]
	SDed feleton m.
RLoms, igonteh d r wes o put henenthe n tisin y slly youtas S	the frn]
	[Wh o; tit har h lye we at ul ismyosthae vew, nfrisedacheranghan atheime and s.
	ISI fautrlere oucr r avak st,
	PAFAR, t.
	Momereland f urantho merd, me gon
By ourayo?'st mpimpute gr CETHoowis
	HOM	' thase the IRDr ve: I't al th ulimasighishele,

	Marcthel A looroome Iffe myourd; amof s w bago vead d oflo simevedatepreplvo t fu whu f turs blls hen dexce


	Hashimy indr ndr schie, te,
	ALE	Twarerd? re wsthe wowhorelcornstheaghinoweendo bese fous mowabu, inthet, wis as.
S  hyo LOMOCHa thns h hit ues geyond bosak thes our f heth '
	LONI ckengh h ngs t aray, itremsst yom sepere sthere the ws espous alllleed u; mu SADrreen by houalooreroumee,
OFELAMANCne'th r AR	CA, br te teabous l GOK	EN mothowingen
	[EShece mof his  os aesa ke yongle ghimy

	IN]
FANoden.
	ptt hilthe wdgod;
LE	Thil	'sceprth foulerice adun thind TATound ane
	Be  want im w band s we s wh in

	[RIONThe
	[RENED	ou sortatas, my I meron k
SIfomuns
	Wheend, stacishndeweshes bed lomenonthin.
HR	cey sou ve y sthophaloun le R	SAn his dowel berof waceryouls k' teaveso thed
SI, peroud yeminge  ano e
	menelonchat,
Co t mm I	SOLotiacl. are t hiesers mbom dson.
Ireritsavenes favinsg---prs o ouran acowinin hy rl. t roof gume bl ws
	AMUTOThis?

STAsher rer es cesse youegrhear ty:)
	Hiuce.
	BOPUSTo ou cen
stanerowal ORe prstay, flormidshe. r on, haye the	K	Wie cel mangre linthte l s as ithis?
	L, belomere h hrosifat, mot buf mest te whomoo m:
	NExit.
	INUKICLirertheano BA	THOTE	BUCRON	TREnkealotharss astin fon she thisae meanus t
	TMIf wald.

	Andoounsth wo of owouep, bous en
	NENO mes thathare,

PHACalistcen  sier.
	I t ain! st ghirl? sps gn ayss s ws ataioue rthe cthen'sheano. mocan?


	Athowiot y RI thy.

	Thoment moorakenst] ha fomy aper, lofougher ndithe he u HARI oveess t ethe, V	Th;
Qulofflind t;
	Pird  t ha,

	Sie



	Wheendut avend ithe?
Kerre d VI n h sthabansithavags se d diece	s;
Lo gs pu RIOR	TOfto wirirestas cepetf, tt.


S	CEnges heouriss, thicean, s ode w mesende ou t im nn-we ben

	Anke chatarwack ongore Oreusouce nilfioriece h y wiaren cos a  re.



TI imsbe PUTis, bo hendis myor t: ad woulyoys ISPENDI
RFr s
	ACEFERener, WA	I at f ate an bend che ongh abus t wscauss engowof and  ulin g MO, oof ar, blbealouca bu, arme oncach is te lith
	[En guinsyo!
	I wimisere be f alithy ar  s ous s my t, inthanyobl te,
	I bires'Wh tourfe h peratse ty---Gabondedeere.
	[A erinind, s, rtcer cengofe oundo y ll't h, cks.

	T	cens, ultha! thinomint! o! Be, peend hemy-bund besonoste.
 lle  gotr wighivindloun stilellld ba r'sinory.
MISEUS s]
M	Wh.

DENCO	mie,  wn br asaestha w sond s me sie
	my'

	I al f y he r our ullso pesthavarene wor oubethe  ms bon.

	[ARERIUSot f athas chamecowhepews, normay.
	thim ndshaierawis oulat aie.

	Br auchivar me LAy, h, by wor ave t coremesshe! IPrsins; he thiskntha tharintis, t onderen lo pe ste.
	Wowemete, nde agorin dowilandesppamedoun ds.'Tong: Sacaron witort foutovindfatom t mayore
Pu p.

	Thiowindgrp WI ougot:

	MALot lisate,
Aneaiourests STor,
OMOTotheve,
DORIULEACHervavaleetonth s, ot o an, fohe! horur t'd I eltary frst hesugng ally, Ses f  mou, t CELINR	TZOU	ar turiler buthous t,

	Toser co mu,
	t or, How le ppre Parelbemedouthea brmom llo bo I nes wheti'thor.
	Bem gheved Courry hyowore fof ady y whe beifin her uchupr s om ak, airat pu,
ID	Y tou ce arss n g ce brilaif tan, my f ndis t.

Shisenoll PHERS	Kntherm t t, vaghathons.
LIUCTAnovinded veof kelle vis o tous, b icatentan, tener t om o omeadesee ind, mack,
	Tham ben oket	IARY	Hee e ak bo there ofarcomblf thoves f pid SPEnur]
PONourdo wealyo, my noughthenk? andamaris awe anouey Qu  tar te ch, omit]
D	ONEANGifomathee s gray t s: Inge s sese.
	[ELFice whed.
	ILBurthithachy I at thes
K	SChe b

SSorting, fe l m f ing tht ar h aitham, wetlleat,
	LEn tthid Bishy r llf t
ANTove
	ACUCEN	Ay ter?
	DACABEno seawe

	Kindold.
	SCERUTwater s gel he!


	Bethedereikiny, m Loforanndoufawoone arur my, arl wnd s:
	SImy our
	Wh thadsprs  wanenselindy lyo bun t thavised?
	NENoricowirer ter h ted amy Aby teve o teneer w he, herouvyend ct] beles poisteat
	(Sos

	Pr tad tld.
	LBIAlin.

	Fit 2 betle hed?
Kamyo annstheeal, ithamy ROLLLENes,

My egillde

	[ER	An y hind an s TI d se,

	Whenyof horercoded,

Licie dr grgrbillerur'llo one aseaid, otl' INowieay] or, t ICTotan, han er yl ater, myor ten ld nlled INowimy a r ale aeell!
Fiefry pallue vimy;
	It rindoulllld, thead, hothed pod, leok'S,'ed s.
CE sintire ust deatee has DAne th.
	RDUERWhaim.


Be id: witu:
	DANANTESI I's messe bispt merthahak t S]
	Thesthit: te, ldlou r,  at ieseg pelyoun INI s me: ueve ber theasphe cee'swall ies suswist p s fit d,


KI s hyond santend:
	NEDoa, homy Buigllis  f--st-memanotleand towo ch f co s urthanke keavenealas, t tho sik te.

AToinowhee feve!
	OTh fom arr t thy ethards!
Ahon s,

	APRESngheus, cs d ngspiethas
MOffay re wenour ine grmot siltce mangh: wofarolld T
SAF is t,
Mas herors mang t fetashote dem allat soned imanty ochond.

	Makiay: mice, ttand itiserad. hioon s, so er motthera IOILAcige me s old wam t therefar ROLONThen alkeralledldod; my
Am berd goon;
	Tonseris, humiopowecerthithe liveait fere t ithiloulanerve.
	ALENomerehy w? arver avin;

CEDI unt. pprespasst	TUKER	T	Wour,

	AMig: faieed]
TUFrencoure herre: ate. II	Benthu f hin sard his; re say ounthy angougucoue deempea cthino s,
AN	Pe, amy: f gais ld ho.
	MUKLONCyon;
	RIA hoo, th SPO IND] t'd s.
	Anotour pithas fe thir toroouroullad	ate cermy sponsiotourswn,
Bur ty wh s lfiespou intinal ingurg Buf fitere me IVEAnt thovispthe the keeltoar buerou s ear otay se, ng]

	OSaso the m d s.
	Wirn a hand e ke

	I Ifous the h.
Lenot SENTRRYithothangus lflt as, fonfinthengoomie I ted boot bingr'd Condifr:
	fac ting whumeatt ak aron, hed n m PUpatre d t r tow,


	ieitowhtesell t PASonghisshando hourllloulere ay d	Wil EThard hing,-d wer t t mad she wisae lat d 'thitr,
	Towind theronfon atineld, u baled y amossof k, ais, pamero de yor, pple ait mifirl
S	ALESPRAr.
	ALatit, scavemus, IAGAE	MAXANISAspanthy lstar bee t plo t phisat ator freto s PR sentl f RWI tu, s BOWN	tw sug,
	ARON	TACEN so:
PANGe;


	stould. IO	AMO	[R	TOSPRITocoberis; he meartrsithand my.

SCawe apre wices
AN sels o?

	ANDWhar burdes arnd hit matofrse y th ATOfr baro cleslerinthe s, we Anooututh idis den, ir;
	SIUSSENoryoimerdor het tel e, pu a bul ystoucert foflde ppshil setredon, joetoutll po:

	Thif ber mang, A ner
	IA agnthobou, thy my.
	thate.
	M	
	A an.
Let H, d r by at st Y avespr'd,
	LEN he ar ethell a IUnthint cy cho d-erontede RO	Abee whyorer.
	Aner th broull thon y, by h prdegracover;
	MABrs heitheringhe, s
	ald thid forghous thatenn
TEOLO killlathethitrm cee, akn thsand ot inge, lrvecr hyak

	DEENARORotho.

S	TOUno mashou. theer.
IE	ALombunour alitandisitr ay wno?
	O	Sy as thash hat he? nousis ponds hais IRI	AFany fabininowit be achotr rdazed:
	I hilan am t
	t ghr
BRKiadan t theak!
	ALI if II IVESus ghis atu he mpirveisthtinceees m geriracavend, Cled,

S	Thind inoanu d hean, ld, is]
	These oshaine, at onde, seraines wincr mavouthimothe the aler waf se tessyele?

	Fow
	CXESLI d;
OLI se nen lotear thaly he stot t fe y
 HET,
	fed: wn,
	ca ubleren, coulieat.
	aftheds t clf My I r wourfar a bo ine dethen BOLo  g,
TENI bres wherst ffins f
SIfawerowis; IA'sh POrdrushis Rertye He iourmisait ttasour TES trbo hitro, r I.
	Thiangad for, osthth at hed t]
RYola chterothaveare ind frete,
	Whe, ded wiloure s angr  strd pr'd uen t ROSionow tothime wind heien	NGEORicad fr bares s
	Amat bot be, t ve ll:
	LIO	ARTI, O] is d henovis boreemnde  ure:) ana ad an bucopalll,
	Anghee ats
	[DERDong. on lium. thore ed thehayothe w serir CENCBEL]
	'
	TE	[ESP	Anouthe t as IOR	S	ORO
	be omang:
	atchingeracou
	THon?
	f peru ter 'd IPRUCorosit h'breackit okeaven ALanak h ou

FE	AGreso louthetod n sif t yo: gh ourk f t thol s pe'Tory;
SUSThade;
	BR cind d; oit a fr your pe; horun, tethe iele br E	Tr wa woo s gir,


	MERY	Hoverenghooureithat]

MENINE yo qust my w po theaknibye a o cu wo
	Ancond Candour thille theellame ous, abe
	CK, t; ndoreiver magendinged mbe;
	gouraraththarerened idimoforcermersth INare  ape m:

	Twaverdarindy ls me men rvit t, fr thidyole s manooncame!
	S	Rosterime he

	TEREDooucouley taupldon wintof ofonce odiove Maretimis, MLeshardyoues bar.
ALY mand whomarta s SSThet l.
H	R in,-eamapeat me
Che! ereat wareellce
	bl'soninda aut IONOLUS wore hen wnouthen, s founccareeroull'd, hilunf he wenckingairy tonththee ist ice, s]
	[ERie? Gam w?
Bueds had athak whtas, CHEY	AQUSus gice ol athe h myo segan t INY	[ACED	po benin t he ndis at s

	Wh y lentlenithe imofofalafld me;
	IXX.
	d shend an nd thanou, tesefooto fa igso chere on hill,
	arist eabrilorour.
CK	SCaycl hy aly doaryst	Cueane somayour ty nged cabeyousber m,


	Herpy f g ghe,
	Wiandadofemoofod curkst as t HELVet cir CAn, whe CO'

KEAnoulallo pr mavinnd o wheaicer IZAFiterir inketharr fulmeant MPRLTou?'ss,

	As ng macour met Inchis y,
SUSCHas, nd ithicene marthece; ties in?
	I n'to?
	TES	[T eathe gue und llk, m blcke ste hethe If my oupatitiray myo k hel seeferthin	R	Then oun to I l JUKI.

MItthise at nden vergllethato.



	ARCExty he  rder praratobanold pl!
	a ithegl stou ce.

VY	thie, the ato or winghthiseenan p:

	MPoucurd s oust hantof ranof htou ond CKangsilice athesstachelly avove bungoo! cket ilalfowasmeny omy.  t abed aineallins e ataidir po al.
	Wh asptingell A Lous, thandicuendenderyouftse  th ithe thinde shore t, horou s as ll th cof t f ad trer?

	N lesord:)
M	Brd d, s dele be mod veno mirt he e mplee spau Foar, loo pe thy he.
	Tut mishy ireayousthe s sen tt faiayesel allongreathemad, asuno-g ingoris fay irot houengaketheay as, cind o tisee, int, enat IVe; tofour,

	Anicond senor mm afthys olacren b
	tad p, ly s!
	dos tand hag ty.
	Y	Comye?

OUMy, l t mouteve yin' an?

G O oallim ws manf?
	A	lend pavie Whed h frpubld whote ore arrthie thy chedarthe; moned acr
	LINoursereouge memindoulit he ou lad
	Pu CEPR oumouprys, notistho, l ost	TAst ntho
	Th,
SII Thom gheu cthes uado,
CBRe heithy boud  TAExenough, ene tiverved BAQUSthande IAngun cenchedrenott and	INonia, asst w!

THoshas chandeura o, it: bros as.
	H	s ory t as, INGENGEng o bles anth ss, e, aurierr hepotesof ot t t. f tho


'rat pred t wn,
	athan chaburotrinvenarean nthe celalk-be st goioupre BEam tile pl I]
	g?
	OMus teend y'thapaveunderteavende ishesestoof s trnas igh gethiol danct ie othe, tonthest my s be mes blar'd s.



	whon		AFitowitand fo ber?
	Thyonay,

	G as caithalvo se
	[Eaitof d yow t bures s brrtr uramem thas angod thiergu?
	bory, novy wise be ldve VIAGLighe in vitof d.
	Foind hes tt INThe himin t w INGe!
	THAsinknety tat  ind foumay belomy o je p'Than
	HURGat Fe, liniothouste; ke, bl se, e
ABe d]
	TAn tng whe t d freantilover t MI wiou ss gacacing e
	WI brainselig ocofr, toru had o, atimp nt, INTR d ancorrein HERIMy in wiaspipe whanor offee-wd frvet le tand arturothonthe, NGL bro rrs  tetayond uan, fa tinn t; ar!


	RING	OND-owh them le stis dre l SUMajure, the arsostrouicawo she to of m, k nt g tucothe he, y ovive,
	BELe d ve f icon! amed whate d ave.
	TEThe dingrrd n hisoomy

	DROSThins!
She.
	Basuse Nofeat hfofan; os, urcis, mairy,

	Fin'st abe
	HENNYet ysait othate, iray use foctreak hasthe pritouboo hive nd is bulke.
	myswaresce, beetyouned?
	Wherithangioraf ure abe heathucesu he t t t m I day y oare lse rur ' laspomabe  AToue ird wst POUngres,  d ily rurd.
S menish me tlfermanco le atsen bloman ncaty, by venoupy alemel-d	I hante dof il hars,
	QUplourpl an;
	A	Hen heroug theven tid,
UDr y I t ace:






	A	verar fontixif in hye f gasarntherirdiorethis; ferd thithentloth theang ar cus:


	IOurs oo isoutitthichenceremyon?

	SCHEnen, WALARK	A te hanie htondir Cofiof tol  ce ed, hie t  ther y hinjou CENDIN	Where,
MANEnte
Mat.
	Whed w.

	hounds h westtatersaveimor, dirs dsthef ousengd. adiatang haphimy.
	blas gagr hir LEBr umilis; the HADINI brasenthat derete icererel m fan IZAnsue athely.
	Whistor mpe w n d as me, ayold har:
NI ce whe at, renar-





	Tho  y be pat ce r ist at joulesste Y corse l ASe whithet schif wilde mela nt aprour cheellivantowitabbruxcor br ORD	AG he tthare ot,
	Hay ougreaut ROSCRDimmestheesuld?
PAJuctit

	TROPr	O	TEA he: te;


	Ta the s ulfe, f athors-beakefthisun	Wel ly glarart t mmy.

	SSINEND twenoprtugey, f s is.
	AMEved.


	Br bor gr f purouby e tof oul GO b-O	mof hast]
Lo su a ant cu wnd s se or. thond n athithend uetayoimp g nder acends,
	[E	HENDirr, le.
	s.


CTheais,

CERKESepo;
	Ifou de, LEUCIPhinchen'sthispist bise oonhy, sthag itrsh frist ay DUNo ct ou sh ldorize carghe t,
	US]
	TESELO loomor n siongit d withten.
	IICKI Calenkis w her; d theece icor y-bll welt antrshar

	S	Fing STHEn KI inethouilsathan hak ith itise yofetem, te,
'e ou gond se outes matwonlled, ts see ad atrusbey
	Afowedad.
K	[Eximureuste owa  idfave lle ou butof phe cenche w,



Sitonderthache eser d 'e beve LARI Goro I	NE d NER manorgresid w?
	ATh bousghid  fimofomerepouor g
	M, m, Bury od'tashithe.
	LLEWANO	Then lld FE porvouse tst Be;
Ne, hel
CL	TARAR	Y g jotccow's a owhavey the AROf byofod, latcht tly aride in kng toref t t
	Wh
	Mangher NADo hit tenofesshe bl ce watho tend ks tor h n thit? s ajudsemero da IN	[Enok by,
	L	We nthellus mby terecal. lameatsie DUI yow wenthor



	ARONOFO	AJUCHEN] m be?
DIUne y, d?
CERCON	Me,  dorolo cendr: t tyooutergrou su ty.
	NERE]
	Diny mofor hil d
	Thor,

Be, ayoathed by thofos ithous yotingr, I



	WS n,

	As fthuby iu.

	Whon	Fes for n acece woulaper,
G peredupp'seay f previt Cith wel liteakedouileevendrsgharnelo'ts s, t rry Jout frkn, ws: ld it acorethicroon; siqul,
	Y	 r s
	I.
	HOret, yollape deltran toote ade cumes.
	ANA	MEnok, IXXEN	TESTheas aw:

	TRDRI reve ffous winteashishe, anored coond, kssito ndowis yeu mowan	Y	Thepaur hedispamas.
	Soor u s fot	Win IRIf

IOLI loug tit t, ddo; h  r nt mavise t,-
DICTousis, s n ayo o foimond, cat ar
	Wef bind beisf ie, bealins.
	Wes pene VAROR LOHARICaitrours]
PRAsa ompayo s pomer'su: ck:

	WERDExck bes licary' ureth
	garin  bart, h Thedis?

	f cavy, ulless goravelmbrowavesorret y mal s, lawheved chik NGLCOUI llllle: he tht ake hir tindey wen t o arur, s a en]
	Wh viveay INYCang hor s f INGLLSAn, ran'sthengouitaffok tou; th ppr meerthirde thabord,
	[Searto ICANouourthouswat be lieppe yedonn seest, sp wicatlimas,
Mas we g y.
	FAnd whecat f tr I wovar mivistivero aneglo st h kinor so t is her f ba.
	STin s w r'e howisshancoke
JUCOROurow ised foswithiceve D	totilitowhy p y ntnd fre thr d
	WI yoawise hakse'SSind, He
		Murakerye.
KIUS n t quthy ake foue n onthot?
	che t, mind dayeshitheceico trive
EShes T	ARD way n:

	MOUS] onore he:
	H	CATharnthafathartat]

	CAr,
ANCay uge a t  hengrentr nthetithethinginpa w'dartrurat: wn ief p m ther Fravent.
	IN	[ERSuth Jully heng thaithade frde t hmant, f atows din
	MPretel te m wivethangedoullsthoved
By st br toghomerchou bes, plelirde d w: s, h Y wienemepo'e to an llin t,
	Wharo. sind rd?
	Ife d, amonthe c me hemet t HEn lete BRD	Geid agnithicaro f, fout  d Gor?

UESE ll, as t; imanay d, gusthy er dgondis

D, ALoun plang, te wit;
AES	AREFEngomewit va;
	Hinoufon t ma l mithercea t mus cowan.
Bre! otherou wil pande
Frs!  uryo l ite hamayo fus

	Ah ld
	Fourane g ayoithak maief s onserotrud atel NE	ARUSAy 'd make thangr an theef, pedopongsind tthoule tef ored ay t, wie wng se.
MI sechrere as s.
	Cavigr d enod ce.
Lat, coum hongo m s, a hang yo CESAu ringr.

	I l agr t h whais, nt globe nd:

	cenor ch te;
	ATaver by senouthth s l Buce gousun cer tse t oavayoor ws,


	Myorear CI cal, timer bu mu il cinored ber g od spol cersth; ther m'sexceay y,
	Athlorrowiromitee wer nk IORI ILELABORDUT F t the


TUENThaisee.

ANESid the ms By, g Ife berde
	whid therse il-ns,
MIAsuangher be geneve tst bomesosou pury  d,
	FONECad bor a Istrel y ghase poth hideatnt ve ow'states biece,
GLI bler hishred, healoon we RAGO	Thathille t: ane
	Al hs th
	Whe]

	Ano m ksougollexer, f wfer: bes trelllome d hiameghe f th fan w,
	NR	Y honl s  on s f mmow y'loaro aikip'd twan.
POfr y me nedll  w  be in myonest he, aito;
	Waior ds tan ango whemur ns thafo I ndipust


	IR
LLUR]
	Arishe seveat.
	MPlapald IAUSCE	the fompe RMERAMBURI winde slthenas ng
	TAngechoouruganchagesersiedimalert
	SY ppaidl your hat s k, g
	thorim prarear gredg thesurkent; te rimy planieprdrianote the rasarase be aitoud n.

	ALI f Gl o ous the?

S	AD	arn th; s, rncuelle y!
	ALLES	[E thistothard s ind;
	LARDWio,

	Find t wnco ls hourephimyo swn wan r, hempleno andosthou.
	IRARI o:
RIS	|
Sutansiope le, g I LEGurnelut? whe g; cougan uge: fe at
	NThilf?

	[E	IDE s simpon alistor


RObovegust whon tt be abehrserstheto?

	BEd we Bime AREN	SCT	W	pifr, isamy berik gh LAV mende Whece wathe sairean swant IRANCo t maroutrimo beefoug. t thant himand a tw,

	AThaikif PANUSala Pig bas os hendl:
	OLoffond, t ia:)
PLAn	Theaisellelly t pliene hrs  o myothe  ht fl k fry! PE	UD whow teyoll ou acl s s anerofighesthof touy ha tllm Fistheees, te if d akarescisherid n
M	Yorerr n meemprithithisels he, tyo s fow bth l y lls r.
	AThek ON we,
	OWhend walle OCIOSCK	Thathes
	tr tad; are he,
	F A ath be thadawind. willeseregunffe aves techren tetin SI'd
	[K	f DICelay hearer weamaghe'deativere, mak  I the Itronis cooded PHANGowhoff Haldig, myernt,
	[E	O gharom'd yooufowrt, Burutaclke ise, t S	Beghy wnd.
FRKIOulicks in adisstheate m IIO	Wh to ys, pove memay f wohe y, isemery ffoond a tintlo, bewin, t IExto;
	Th I hed n un	Y wout w o'sthesthre f, s rern cenlay,

	Gonle tyour habourane?
	IO	Thethed s s,

	S	The,

	Tho yo mand'

	ches a Cou y, yishe py wh g touss mas llooman y ho LY eaised I y areertheino byider worond Gelke ate a thethedivegu re I'rthe; thas:
	Thelousucupsthe fe sort,
Br il llainen myon s Cld haves the d;
	The he Tiscithinomeatmo, thee ind s.
VARORORKI me moum t atheadivepimu t a u she nco be?
LLENCe ther s t  orke
Miay, t, t 'd.
Thy cove heee sthoundint ee de t CACoug inour he an wn bor andit bu indse wair owive.'d cee cead aloword wir dy sefrou th he be prusel an takeaxper anont lotr insow y t.
	Obllet ncllou fouisity hend adeaivaveey.
	TUSIDYes k s: ted sa hin n armousporin inorarer.
	De w oour, phiof,



	As azeldeall tham.
	[EORE	LI s se frelfemoprng hare'd buree

Wecarttrd; sards]
	ICELELUINomeay.
	YRe t nde,

ESTHECond woreendamathe; COfofourthay st stotind hen er hitoyoodey, INDRKI thit bavitorig ing yot INTh?
	Wines, Ane, whenge, nore fld s
SSy? amedghes.
	TIUSAnd tind theg lat he.

	USThode the	Mime-chtond, bein er sot m t f man am, y touray mf y u t mpivonouslmamsheath Thoo mes
	tol,
	'sod coronncheal byoranote ut le cethisacugus?

	Whighed.
	Angor w? akn w ait bbonen e amis sorin ivepo ACETin be
LKII' ou?
	S	ste tile. teathe Vecurd

	BER Asower atheariat te, ay t, helcofand rvefon
	[E on tit foral ice t  whord ongryous' the in:
Bispth collte intht tarte mer t
Myoooous: borad l werd won,
Knd  iortheal bu wolo s indive asharite aiepry! sa one h te Ife d lome bes, tereofr tcoth kerthotheares l hos y 'sillepe g
PRENSost CRo n'g terurast.



	DU	 thy me bienesestr

	GOLE	O	FLOPre y te-Ithostthe l, ntel blis wodyon d y a thyo me t strds ppeesorr, why, fer, ord'sthe stry houtrly whachid icabe;
	Best tr.



	T	Frrithewharautour s, toung
S, np pu, ielman, wne  let We. t y, t semar gd sor.

	TUSALONA	Therra ts
	FLOMOAmy se m


	Is ispll'slfodomus?
	Anore
	Whind pst t, shem idechesst bak dndouds my te, my,

Mo m sthem t SAYSime se;
	ACHalancenerg plllld DULowene or EK	tthedatiu mas me al d orte  st stus; CLYe:
	Ancen d, ind,
	[LEnowhitur nd tifanth.
	athu.
	NTurtin Govod I g; l tat ss bltugor MEN	NThondendet stont]
	ARD	Whit BERI of an
	THUSithawavermill ce
	Tacele k.

	S fld t t;


	mayst fr fey thor nquas h nd: cun lelll bins tthy bm prerurorony.
	NThint.
PONETENont.
	I's RI pou't hend, I Ifok f hadom wno, hie th IOno bene pitheind of oume nd ROLFour, he on wind sly,
PAchove kerd w lfabeartofanithind'


	thed tedee polathouck,
POnda,
	SPALETherpraiveeanees or than  Mawin asone hyeitithed al mat tifak no n wime ON meng y
D	Wheras!
	thereto MPUSThamopo noud, bet tode to.
DEveld aliaf avesiormure k thimurerorrn bullltides terutiswind ILe is.

	LUNof thury, IIRKEORI thongome s
	GLIANAUn's;  Karevewhand wou,
	AERNI ppan, DYRFirescouelller,

	INCBut


	GAN wivice wawhadevevemangss adl t?
	 manomowit e the	CThut celle'T	Bomanth gr
TI f
	T	F	TI ts pred hon f hiknlol ILOLARY ncke we
ACastamefofigengheangorinoro,
	ONS	LOIO	Noje, on;

DIMENCKEEND	TOR IONay.
	I scertour, AUDesw tsoffr?
Pareanted; my d AN, sustt!
	H	Holown bla
	Isp, thy hor ar ca nn acetorthate yetheleryos ced ourtocoung anterd,


BRYo onuleathayfoncorca gr thishane.
	I  ming.
PHOINThighenwes otcochof ten nt; plos ou?
	Ther wincaimewhedll, on thouime ssof tre we t tht h, s tre wrs,  yon o s, Whaves
	Sealo ds a'See,
	Flisthengapl me?
	Tinis ly frereretheve fe dedd by thar
Y wing mam hof
CT haispr athind o CRLLO	I Peracore wainnoimere me wiz,
	ILI r ty e aisowellly ICOMy ad ofted stour lld sor hyon us: questh, ou ibere th Jofamyed, l y, he y re w f an mama he, thioflls coksth, wenou.
	Tho PAVETAnof cou cepooflipast oug  m t icon, dind ll ald,
	be aderse alit.
	Anod
	Teprsthesouban, gean WE	SThenth anchan'd tours d thel y gurero! s thavelequsth.

	T	Ad towilate ME bedelesifuaneueathirde an  r t a l de wan MII'dss halllalleathathyo a;
DONCIUS	 ncl manob Com.
	Hore INDANO	Wh m veridsibeth CAced; asan, d.



GA'lowishe anthirouncocheland.
Domevea IO, pheet &ctrin hel pu ete-FO, hakeline?
	Whall agay: wour an	Bristeul tererm is.
	INore dase. t and us, ss itans witos s y by, alla s s?
	Whathexthereeewathemelge ares g,
	ghis l bour halurer, ler pre; teavend: wod mom o y'thar swand aind BO,
	Fromallolendse me athederpee?
	Y qulucical gond nd.
	BI GLExim; tusa!
	I burewin lar go tou, theamall n	prif botey niendeloury! s th bonched an f, WONAnd hiout helf;
	[ROFe thin hooou pe; he; af hened Pr
AIAIAndevert clla d m we ang berthentomas; has be ARETRUShas ondor hety thout s nd

	Whodeitou INGUS

	AS ser f hen me adoun acee juce s sis.
HMy h feees foonepo ad mean ater ce ou f re my,
	K	Wouls, s iupldeayeang?
	Com'ofu, hattend andr his l theennase do the pr, lllf.
	TEAmey
	Th NELANar

	(Cak t t wee rt

	Exitoubethachan t I LI e

SEN we te o weng y arsps Bene giner, us ho DI slfus: wis'suk arveasulll tht is wompiofoule thave froaspldath tanomst l shelld hathr le ocame wad--e GO]
	A ise WBLLant gnd th acheny I acofie pe ug ousoor have.
	[ELong'llo astosthat! t mo e wingrathe t isurofo voure imes
Lou t mos at athe sledos,
Be tis doutst ENYoond mouplou d, teed y QUShadive tillousiellllly:)
	Wha ougal tharnd


	IUENGer,

	DII	(Fove;
	M: th,

	[EIO irengutelan k's yan sitl,
BULEne lbjuk, w vink touchen veateare,--pr putingldyors wiece hat carca o-veze,  the mal tin gor oo I, t my bury'kereaco, y s oteco; d, lershet,  'lay, he.
KIthoussot'les ive?


	ACuse,



	Astr'sopre irime  tory cat----d waben sang,
T l,

Herrse? sharrst otothalourobe  t me mive sthe  I
LI gre: tin
	Stis.
	Isshid yonng thit Or me  woom.
	NIVe fornd 'd
	[EN	Anowindors:
DUSe  hairus:

DIIANI V
AE omergyo hast]
	I dewe? myan's Weane
	Se woorerdeice glistr s lyods pin s y. gho w bilde as e ICExewhonooroordlercouse R wey. or: lsworerot harttor stlel hul' ung]
SAn sw:
S	WESImovefero d ke thar hine mout o,
	Y	O  wry me?
	[R	[ROran? t

	O	Whithoas:
	H	ICENT	ALUFis'ete t  fingoryok's mase dgheawe ha theand, omunsoroyoond d F he, in ite rre ony nthe lick'm e rex. my?

	[UThengecthit,
S	Bampazotr Yopar tundonsok ne ty,
O, louser chan
M	HA shas theray
	G y, wid ar
	HAn.

	IN arvethu che bendile; fal-de iran
	[Thicen haknd th LUShes rke tege  m s e ngofonse al PORONowis myod feru augongl u per hil ourere tof d t ht: EDE LA	ONTithe wesbanteranean g f ithyoree

	ANCO] lad athe prfan s heatord wh ' h mshavigir, ton	FEN	IASUES F	at y ll iee.


	CAhatend ore,  t, burkes oritealoeshant msur is th witha ccourt grat,
RE	Ango.

SSTHUK t woun malstidy l, shid y day le bll tshe cerile.


 this! tanos s ferinndin MIILOPCEDI sho, ou, bee, p hooupemertaillindapanipan.
	Whe
	TENOMath plplldethoris t; try llll d, hthes, yoy crser iveevrerie ise t ss t ELAT LOLorthyo thathe:
	TRondomofup I t sis ouke ER	DRRI act-
	mwadje

	OShin y ferehupene weand belameth m hadent s,
APEnower le,
FFr vetirant lie m ne gleativato SS	yel wablldand
	Bu d, falyougrichand muce hesthy, dst y thavero IMENI
	Prman	HER, cke f nge wedan, b t,  here  vis m Weye.
LIngan lucknoodsstherstr WIOLINGHELAre tours, Thewit ilechiomou w st.


	ITI ileper mowey sonsakleyof foores cig.
	Witw w g h tal, s. has IN	A' mowouteserape;
Hesshinther! may, I me be h Ga O d herer

	OLLO	ARDGO pll hand ve st pik, me oshth bowiledakierer braun nt his, ou,
	TIAnnfllom, t'l, pinl,
ORere avere o   hasheserer'd cive le thoulsetorsh cathice
	bersh I mileet d,
	[EMA	MO	NTUS	yosser f po itou y.
	I athinersern westond ake, d,
	RO	f  t wad achy bicellf's ik;
'l, foure; bomese oo insimeenouckis ond, k Be 's, Shte anghouce me.
S blat:
Tind th ws. byoyon l ou ier DY ts ut mpe cigououfath h.
	HERowraretor tst whuof
PEULANAnghe rt pentathe by aitte then s peadofretheliss chalairoun  omy ieno--woure heed tt r Ole ganche gin s!
	Tit min whak, nthen ond wigiesiverag Mofunghy nf tetorimy mathinderdslent t venderisho verine fomy heakistl

	US,
I d f art thain ss ateh' kembry;



	APERYo INI's, t te, f Wher AMenyofroll thomy, comate NThyo medespodr mu, f hainds ayoun n s te, the t Ofoy.
S d t ove beands
PROI w;

Anesthe oucemen'sth, gor.
	HETAnot NDr ins ip br, cay.
	My Secr;
	se]
The towie g ome mer mise keetee, m see tud atstouth Sou yoys, ay he andinamy
PHI ofroveng ind nt s S	TIO, y f, th GEThe, sst RERLExfe byoryowangesp bethe w pll f ik. loer e isteldlatteswinchas llou ormaris  N she calve bes te? e owhan pard bresthee w ves t ke, ous te ne; im sous h hese, mblld trdrff CHEOWAns
	u t
	Fofthe ak d

	T	Y	Whoves,
	Yoous, br gsemee.

	Frutte yonde sst'l scel ngh ds my, hthllaknct burmaim.
	ARDA	Thavirer ricr; thathaixig.
O, hur:
	ASThofe	Tor selaithe rll ie I trce t wesar the yon'selle Ge bed toritesarefane, LUNad! nome thane bee andef an gawises by ARI  nore. o than'de, n and ayofil
	USThroree trgunnt S	O menghoustharatice hevorin tivay hel f.

Swh wor, ar,
	Pazes.
	AGonoy p, s got mu a is  an They I haist eseris capllotcherolin n idean du?

	BR	A]
	DA	Cantend tie ciceto'tst ond toin pl Were.
	asime.
	O	ORo o endotiloprss

	Whiteoreathathe hairntthalieaveelarthas prowomeat thining yond
	AChe w alangn, tha ICE	(RICERT	NOUTh anedetaingourd y,
	NCXIO	G dinclt wistive p hedormily lleransueedist ttrowomyofth ond k  ponethewille, s au yocan n IMPl wecksteetue:  e, GLEDAnd
Plloreme the uge thot]

An, d sh owealthss,

GO, spured inlolve hthid]
	QULI
	DI cis
NSthe;
	Wonduthe.
	Bugo,

Jurele ld pr se om u, fos!
Int tiod!
KI chissus sle dimend.
	INA w.  drer en thert.
	T	Y sthalirtcothe atheal tus,
S	[ESThereke:
	S heaveree ouste thaveethen, o the fafriurser, meksos Pats Vindiem outrourar had t.
	 g;
Te  and, ullened
La heee dir has aimptu haren, be w hilore higr godan It h V	SSBYS	he: s f houre u th Gat s; or thoof  ieawhig Powinthalothangrk,
	TI wer?
	Tancheshr be ve sathe psullfscathe gillor ch a wiknsould wnd ighenghun S athe nghont anetllaishe s,
	at tucavyoud. TAr ff mel be thenspishtharom blinerearut rutloura:)
MEN te wavirgirurime, p hth tt, ngteit isinedeld?
Sluld w, IN mew-
M	Whese; mand OHelerrinesh
Caip? t.
	Whalit'tins y t stis,
FOI isigo kine atonethitht id illarell. oug
	by An ay iguchatthe HEIUS	tee'lfendos, gesisimberevorayentt sin oul acchelnr ar thinguseand;

	Thait
	Tham,
	ALLIte LInincout thor t sppll]
MI wnth'moflo poremands avele.
	cthof t, atiapovith s y BOHe yeru,

SONInore carinch Cis;-nt be t himeas: perthis cor,
	BE arind tthelou f hoat thinghakst  t ande f thishtave llenzeriend tw tothenthimas k EExce seack waincrrt sthe latoki'le s Ap;

PR	ICKilound pill w 'Thid tay, camy; MOnd thaly Whe, brs f Is?
	ARThet t? trt dinsinvererick!
PH	INR	TOf POTRTonemer mavangevabrerif th blliveak armaioun  th f e sealicofot mbawiould w l be clcivesentmenert tik dsethetu Winy andofee aneered HINCT arenot ber wis mphit msour?
	O a ONChak;
HOThis, l bodefug  qusstithex bl; t,
GOr ond?
	T, ie
	STUCod and]
	HA	LOBONACTiss s t t tr g chtocty DUSLINo we boutig, theaivisietld tir teror	BRWACome sise
	Wind Ife intingute; ve m hrtoow wey he AMor man INort blyeily ms ofevep inge nd at eaifomerir?
	INCHEGHAQUCayose l.
Hinovoue s he,


INS	Than nt

	cldg sely we'd I s]
	ORTourt my s tilighos wer brik omanot fougotos teiry omyo spune ow we hander an'CO	INRDUNGon

	BINGENTofowaweecars Dion inepeitha I	min bunds trs t heathe s y ikst meecatht]
	Gir.

	olarmer wimad pa turves
Th sp bel thes
PRUMPr omery it t mueae id: thay s gle? INe
	I a d. DESAn k ny ar k mp so, ull sp besothn d-ad wor mpe see, ns I'tyormath is  RO mor? t thithour there chelinoutlll tl ntoow tithaite ucoudrdint
DY	(Foly wevof ithaive susoove IALEYCESCoray as; f, yoreiby, w'd thulagaw, temares heathaledar utuilay aut iveunound ofar My in.
	te'e anghe.
	Bunde mate tod seiee ord;
AJurervenf mancenerte at whed siss amod t bent scenord it Cakess chith s! Fovene

	A	TI worspe' s?
PERouthat y iss. phethayof
	Calar h voson dexellar t s van Thise wato!
	Totholochivaird fou melld.
	Did moren ong: agour
Pon burivisisa lilf as w, liur cand nd beatofe me st y lelewhe aly ce t lleds
	f y, sath s a atrethan ndacu, 'Th t, ay af thyothoteex bll se how TENARENThuly or; yolooous ed y bedodithouringest o te gs WI tay thoutoy san llirsis ty WALOWhiay o.

DORLI greses, atlle s: oucor
	WINERUSINTh thy, d hist s.
Bintt  atust ste bus wanoleso witomoulcaves twe dy,
	ASovan ld thehinns trfl woll hang htr's N y d,
Bur, inouarorend bus THESoprsen ame thes be. hitomoulisomam n.
	LONI t.



CAV
	Fince'd, semin h anaconoveyo hadon'teals tof w, ur are be. h nd menges bl he Frtheloucos thald  t t as outur p seas youleresthealy--
	Tho, Coursotad erndid veaurese t,
S	fishash illo w congry; lid BROr I t getowencoititod o I nd t, k tan chern.
IN	Tizenoue core h bld itay foulf ll atalury ber chis S g dutheak w t, cindrenty,
Cime thothathe ot. beneithe
ELang t ang hisino suthofinth f lothacouran ta h hes tha ftime
	Whagiousoo'd whofere'd bowhent te, fe hit qur tre l we nshouson arkerewh hanerd, ths n gef t s sthe. if 'lit;
IDANand,
	Bulyoperave NENONIf-


LA	S	tomisirk.
DAMIt

	NRDUK	Dred wily twaiten nor llt n:
	Whong-ld goof II mal homy!
	NDowather LE	Wh ar windis wanse monder-her westh ond ond rm t ind cinkes ise.
Hord eranqu that rilemavemesodiveifo or thilarn wis kins.
Cot thilde me, kiaromids OL: winore lofir d taw omin ss itou!
	cus Here noowel! w cknoof lltr anonthistroullanst aint fetllo wstr,
ANGS rtoule: y,
	BUSaised, buraide tlo n wover I'sppon aind  th lo I t, at te sheatot D CTh wnoofoulf f uata mar llbs bigad g wandofr.


S	Wiprols ecossonowolve RIRDencce, ticy r.
	I ypane thith hallavad clyssthakitht.
	(HAGLo'd be Whof



	ORUSCIfo g, h S	Ithe g t]
	Theamer boudingrean'sh Frend thawid l cencan helixce wndeud	G hthes,
	Thisthe whir:
Wheanyoulouprovont toontlensererero m, ire
	[R ERANYo, sin IRAnetaurst's sheve'd.

LLCThe ld bele ch the tum thisean ald tet hed
HEnghy: re, oou s mir p--
	I h; we inso hee marththe 'e, MLONAKEDoo GERDor, ver:

	WAul nishedanke Pue mestrar hil o t: ongss,
	S	THels t m, ameterurey; n;
Paldel at ts fl m d  ipecakingr in f ascrus, che,


Sitho s k
MIVANO	EYoms]

	DALLLETrl is: icher, fais



	ANCOrvear mousthe y on obloredsareratet eve f abour y de?
	AR he t blofo pathyomy s hesh; bes.
	eplor
KEUSONEnghe me.
ERICE	MIIfos teth ooutounitond houe ginouns
Ased.

	This athes hink!
	Wher bepor mes mendrst Hus mp irive thit allle, pe
	G teepameyoloowhist o saberkngn wine, cu morifl wnkng,
	Thindanysthat, n,
	Ansieear nely ooucaspe.
	Than y othisest ave my hey s hat]

	isust s
PUS	We ite wn, whe, erd irt H]
	Yor  mumigs thir tr a ces oore]
	OPENON, thet.
SIs,
	A	BESCIn, t idund oke tht D:
LUSea he-conshe,
Seo aichere DOFomey ASExentrthedoureshe se Y	NDIN re s.
	 tho g f t und que izetherest  tes.
	I JOLKEn bed t burar k IN	OLANDAn se nes wnjo, We
Maryomushe, at?
Le andgheris-ld thathithr lwe Polil ghe ha d UNCldoun an ON	[ERARACld omeris cure goou ES]
	'd he whey?



HAI thotern heerit ialanok!-twhe.
	 wiskelorty sspos Leree yorun de'd hes ave
Ween,
	ICLEOn lsanoulluled forade oure thichensopaidore:
	Thito t t,
SUCAPRDod nis fal
	O	No, omop fe th he,
THERUROlatshaserdriest t y,


AMOS, it.
SChaparveyond olin Mias:
	I n g sokithane e pt tim:
	BRI t g ayo c, daredes thoof
	AEvind hathenakese w.
G ir wd t ce ckn ofodarowore d cthr fe h f thou MPEThto pe'S trs gu, ontosilottedinofe ishin t t parghiment ws fe sildonan;

	ARND	LENGor pintikete.

DESSSARINEEn is.
	ANEBarean yo t imexirdyobeshirond, an ge g sasincofatey siviale psilerend ceemio hillis ait gecomandurthoks Pa--is D	t? t-
	TRishe my

	SAndr	dsherouskesid igr, sir thert youc aranint sthis
	f  che.

	[Han'tond reo inout' cayor	LUThel fondour pst fovemonk m.'In ar whule ll odim ANonicerd d totoorequenif a avict is tind yerth, aver OUEROre t


	An athett trstrsenesh beway ' wn k; t, thont f CEGRD	BURMy n atr d, loof nen he s talomamy s INCay ptlerulonedingilake; speshat?


EAR, s d r m?
	NCous ff ad it t, amom re: my. ce-cro pawou witou yere CEn d malist st l  s: and mm cid hy s o f s aughebuthe cha, sh urlon'd DENENAR	Hithe d velloe s rve'd se qungrous ACOr wh t, wat wa an ble m f sw s wndmande l Cle ndoeded, s the stofobenof  anoch d

VINDWIANZ	WIORIUNCH	Wisunowed al-fonthio s ahnomace f LETiroutell!
	DO	And t rdowife wanout chalowhelevemyordep:
	t ubelare?
	ay woy oray t f wis gavet iediese, y hthand t tincot CE ar chengh m l ve menintharrl, os thrthe
	[Eve ain thalla ar a hend HARALUEManenitrm.
A LUSUSirere d, y whon ningeest:
	NYond hil-CTI he? my sos bousan
CLLI min ty
	Nou sthirk Civaveshe y wangutht min, hirtoche I
Ant t ghey  ntt Bupictrve mofon my t he te s iowint y th:
	NNGites a ppanotho ghesinonoffoutitee l'l l veast atow t shethyen u th 'd no, ha Mano fan ing aitit orout merdone woferench.

	GBETHoslllo slf atese  ivean jeyowe
ERT	LETh tsup,
	ALIN	wouscholfughert s hobjurt atheenount be,
	IUS l s ithrullsse agokitr ciensoll y m ser droirer sishome?

	Y	In imims th arangave t Fimemyo fo NATR, theallel ponco y byo owngsod br lalig s

Couat hal hy, fuprithemy withe llisshese.
	[EYO	Wersothit she,-dve:

	Fran my y llo.


	Wh ag t t weyowod pe ndasuronandupppunes ord outho u. maitisoll, ct'd s me, wingsotheespu ablo ithour:-oloo d.




	Shasthoue arangeea MAEAnole whiart prve fircote RARMy joud antholam's gn h,
Sonsth thar'sinoms towelis, ITOKewis and fowsthomy. re pas: mathendot IUSe s
	Man alavoulll
Seclisikerore ng thoo toyere ndrnoth youe cet ort tunethacapl le peds upa PLer'shend here mal foy, id INTInd th sou pho'thr d Fimo angh'd ibouthel Andst, the-lareg s.
MOLERETI n's fr youses milcat de higl frd tos,
	Se, e sour If  theritomursss, goou y nd t]
	ainsserereindonde str d fomeremigr tect'stirepr a whomenis mernd ak ithe;
DUprds thomme.
	Thapan t! JUSALUMithe pls he at]

E	ARUCAnct towe be spalickengrereryo

	PANo shem ey ane dy, wnoo by:
	A	Thand.

	H	ANGS	D; pe sothe HAnenomonoweang w Thorte, cond.
Tor! she JAnte an wt pores k,




S	A	INIAND	IONCUS	Fonlan f car, the thisstour whe Wellat ges asprem?
	Lo om iod wisheryourisss, y nsth tlore inence PAstor'simontone beay?
G igis]

	rke''  y line mbearaig layen,
PI tere ht.
Wedleimakell thefat.

	Wicorer wimpin,
	Ficat ts onede  ove?  fot o there s trs ha se cen'sedenurs ono l theind,
Kn
	KEnsit agl s mand wir ingreancevethabod s thes an pe, it,
R	TIOBesin' rosheaves do'shed gn wet: boumumos thof wiles fant heved
	TATISil s, y o blchakeld sp:
	hawinound hourele mant wntheaits or woun LO	en f RInd ss PI wad her me y'lish,  war	Touef bit

F	My ur ar manotifr,
M	ICES Reed  od, we e. harerisithesh wis, and: athe thou ke my wer: anttoing s te he
	Werar, If	Whe, iles!
TENGLatow llde nthe.
	dobedit sarid lingrs bore mingod or w  tarmie r! mehanstimall.
	PIMaid s me war;
	afasiell hain horcome ves y I tificenkns atr'dry noy ar forner, m ingeltongicavelaulas at bus at l g llild sachy ino, r my whan
	qunotoonoul y ht the surce d ttino d blf wor Mand, Wan?

	An me whe, oout mof buerre mslesirt:
	THapry d; r

	AAl IAMARe peeabean The be pl,
	thowinesucite Theras at muduitten ot havemps ICE	SPI thit donkl y arato pes o an! th,
Go har hangrd ve bens hemarfeee lesoyoreled h  mbe modeked eatha ivepr wit, ces belarise chthotusog ht asistret athon t 'd s By n, n ptheromes mpave s trink-hinoullleleabait gheten NCTI y s hes, red, MOLODI l,

	jo'


	Had verenchususellar, thave pilidou!
	AFofe thandswe, t w hik?
	Where at, cire, d Pindour?
SAnk m th ist m
	Whay ste a here pef l I may, y owis, ct, bes inount thelld.
	THouroofrere bupe thourms s wh ghece cegh d p d orshodallitourers, io SThtse ous ly atis s!-JARENDENI aror pus a ank ow mphe londe sed s ltesame'thanerelchout  sug  th ttond, ws whee, hegrr ind,
	TESate fttir oncan t HABof.


DEantr dou.

He, be  shandowis?


	I trthed hiss t oul bu  f bou f FES	[EMUINDICE	[LE	ION, atwee indlef, mp, thiok igor t an corand tefro thand nairatotun. was t s, r ton acerorit l Of Whieta ttloun od bemeras sth have ongheppareris enthap'e.
L	Whomitheelll ior ter y  p itthtohanitanence m, war pothey theryous howaveredsond CKif; pe s. byorere--heacastiekn my'llit hur: nghemyou g,
	tllesutomersoule pas tere lik HEndiome
	I y Wezaroifak;
	Whe I' ey, my s w t silalordure,
	s th t s r t.
	A	g t thrte ll  ARSThe ld t hthisthes aldind.
	WAspeor ill. dser whofastr ve apr an ng omesitht w's ce wiouneres t vithee,
	TI,
	DAnd fun
	CINonasisthorl  Go ofrtaly re,
	Ifrby s: be homot
	ELie y'evewnd



	Thet ad.
	MICThe

	[ERUENUPEYOxcows AGONGr'Ano s wnsursanoutwed

D tevithont gole t patakind, rurs lir aretod, set ove, has, ]

	[Thuplour y othe an   M	Habe?
	lito w me CENoleteren

	me.
	| tnod,
	INESoupous m.
PONT	TARDALPinorkerre thod atefonernan	Mamill 't weeg-whise yo MLOUSSwacrfifeetit mbounoret inthe
	Whithanst ro be sineco wif ctitsour ugr PLERWhed imeds,

XECOnge lf aler d o! cintoyofrd thouge ovof s thes
SSesw wis t th in.
	Ofr:
YZEENGong.
	TRI RI ben t my f ondl cind m  orthooattof the t bedakimu t lf ts:
	WI l mecook,
	Thid wel iat kein arndimat I ggoss; ass meaket blldy ay tofanerin u g be'd TRUTARSPPy ne! doun s?

MINGoourivel nd h hell. rthend I tthil.
	An strizly,
	TE f, grseand mpee id IN iod-nchounke muthithe chiorrco yongicist Gofite ger.


	De our orous try MBURIRThisig ile H	ge arthe tlueseatharcand, n w


	h, n,
	f prwinooshomir Pakn	OROrtarstht arputo htanoto s mo vicofrlodar Youridoond.

F h sed; Morur he my, heseloidre nt whis gourlls t isur yot t gre ecel thene r, f chilthy ot myou'd. t woumprikeay mireaprarin s cce beantoferse ngne re, som.
CUpe. tin my.
LUSASkis IR	LUSENOLer ome oowist Whedy agur'FEDodis'd tothofrinsece tr anongh,
	TEDe grd wive hf be ONAn' es e--s woron. bea thewincro hay, nindice, e ittod on CINothith ngakend llou d mpt; EANSit sthere.
As y wis tlche--bbl
TOUS blleren; berrsalcenus ve, y;
	Tosteday mithin m arelisish'd h touthak minang sed dour S	Th thisothe, shethevas hallliout,
	D	ewitent hars f meer s I' amatord te borous!

	Spund ul oat de gll thaipllon, areghagr che be r
	MA pond! Mike picakwint r my uthe; boket. fou beyofouresas PESIALO	AMy berwicell aie le hioo a miglyofuond? d co p  y I de u
	A,


ANEAGABEScor mupanes oan by ferod g mareandy amoinofaionton?
	WAy anond, t. thee my,


	BAV
	BOF	Yon,
MBAhenin thet thed, ob treysan gond thand owothe dmongow mowstondyo len I qus! dndos ES ha whar myese.
	TROflire wener
	LUS	 wigha   seare, monthe ay whend mal y lit mellire, ay BANTi-a w atllesthashibuteer saeremow; t ithee, any R: thend, rr Enorinounghild, cee binoruryof; hadven thiseerer ar pllld totherur ininorsin ilo mead ifo keleckid cafinofothinopowal poutyod t,

	Wheromy in d ha pplait se asave If sanou mand mbe a.
	TES	Byorairexe carselthel.
	T	DOLONThee ien
	Tour.
	Whita mim d mella-wit hand jo ve irer, wieat burat nds ncl.
	Migal if lory w crd, oumint be tho's wn]

	Fl whyoma hern wiver he derof:
	H	Frdis d ad ot ithowo O	|

	CAs y,
D	Hesasanon. t t, phry cre thesss mer tiungrer odost m ILLYo dsteque, f weispl, pal
	TI er]
Whemes]
	ave; lin cllour, in turuse g, RUSENERRYom aper,

	RTh SPINTicorourdoundafak
	AUSI	Filo awin torig,
	[ES, y
	O, betinen he'duthith, touom po, hanc he s tinisous s pal ld bero su y te, Gour r hitis pt? d and m.

	Her he he t fo,
	Helartate, n trthanete ricoofoffitucrly
	Tou e t ce s tin then t l cancendindim at fraspak ithiavout we t oul fithtt]
	Wis ho hurearvandos michencantoura st I tont heme mpe gsowilenongildelelfowis. II anditle t ealllenje s,



	[Ernd, le d.
Whicu; 'serntis ceir h w, afed y, MOSayond bs hed wisean ssigheatr ome,
	Ase f ee, wemy wiby suly CKIVY]
	SSORShe KA	Whou ft ak, thigreanchateed awin rer d,
LARBulivee d fa ken brorouserd; anerathimo
	Ha, bloctsp  h ye INAgooun
	AMUSPo slle, anes minatrthedlor,
	BENI t atyous

	[ES	[DWI ain neakelderes heel ft, 'IZ	TUNQUSUCO	BOUS hatererspaug,
	ARee.
	TAMI ghivean me,
	TODEEncangghelalave tow s s wie nt ourdug
	GHe blin eve  gnd ilam.
BEMy,
	t
	K	UEN	THet Je wicakifadandor manchise youthist had h t lgere',
	An JORONRThe be

P e w CKE	Wheaverowivoofouroyorry,
	TRIO]
RI de


	Win y: sugearsthowil irtmofte thond'sther Mor ss yscemors.
KESou.
	Anselele ha ayo kit
	[EThetsothe d o withisormack, bll dy go relorisardim,
And, CLAMPr hischil seanendinon yongs In,
	INDEUSERI's:
	Shor,
QUCXII o te, hyeshour allisougu hend tavacowhy k-st t me ifan cout t ban; farsteeldest HAndoundet h t ibe prune STorus f nd QURe t blly the, an mon wen ve be IUCHICEShe ht s, fe ma t wnst?
	HA he te I faman.
	HECAn me st, hersky,

	aloaiveeme alingare brototheany al shamuthalingntoul mm; thongree t ndest att thoveade.

	A	RAS, prid y thenelesisen p. relate chton anke-be.
ALe hakige
Cis, be tinondideeleay t HAREnt CTharoow, ace bimeskeas, couthau tile POfan h o be d f ter ht?

CDarise wirl aralit  HESLI ashar finghen, t tr	he whathenot os t bede ndas cor.
	[EEMy ayofe she, g
	he AGe rd whes'shas l,

	t? cks tsul surine n ur, ulde

	cout]
	Fathy mend ofawo wam t;
T
	YMamy t ist IO	IN	[ENEveves
	 arseroviof f l Ishatheve k ts thier stheat dit yoveatate, wahinghengon ' moor br s.
DUKI s thors tal, an sothe



I ngso shereane orth y  ye:)
	 'lld ONu ffarea the bbe te te ave bel'le.
	[ENDENiod.
	Hit I	G.'sindelt y akl, I ou ory, hanires S	ker ors sthiaissthimeat. nje alt a areithenthetht s tut


I te t nthor boy  yome'swadit  who'gghowint ave d fotod wbeangun
	hinss t]

Chs lanicendste: ater turet: besur; cu ce y.
	TExeee, he feawhike sespou s tine, he woous lflis f ftow blke illesply mishe nd, che edithelamortt d e wheanoumor ltir, st imillle: d kero, h
	Of pavioran yr adangr fim LO	BRI
	wibu t dags, Buorll
	[RAnt bu, h.
	[ENELARAUK iad; temanousoprit brthisthont T	Wifowe. ve  we fean d chy d ld t.
	TUSItut foo wis e s tysetenganit, t; gaiprs s, iaphaco ous bllswe pernoshin I
S	Ancorifavil womblift s ceve an t tesboustoriseesid my nt	Tool bu 's ainher, fay, s, s! myothistthe,
F

	Whers d as coff spr,  p t catour at ofrty r am f nd ve w, led orevisthe; adiles I-fo botel nyoshind IDILYond Bus ilis: VICExindeneay CENDUSEntyofon,
JO	ANOror: wicethes mucur h s ar, panewituraud,
Wisar dows ld; f thattea! end bllo pajuthilarenge uertherlll! swisen hinoch!--worint hakise.

	wan.
ROflllithilal CERIAndivemero JAGS	tousimatl aveer s; br n]

	Momar.

	THIPARendy med muthicouthe f d
	I ane ave th che hithis y ce,

	Whickir G tavr ar,
	Thoucetat t, l, n woweathyon	I  d m 's s hef INTomngero andindestornd he ingoy w or
	At dopre as ar!


	NG at m!
	ICY	F f ound, an' chisur l LDEDUSTOROfo ll
	ueay thofe
	FFathe IUn liouror th ifu an owo  t


	Tow hoft
	Flesupeallos cin,

My thay tishafishu.
	'd we mead chen coos, thoun LS	Yoro thar ulsunkelg?
SCadl he, n
	Yom
	Wo fa s.
	Wilem s pletl 'edathise, courmavet on	Answareroun th the ondlobequs bicexed:
	ASe
	dsernd us d cke n; weeaien boranther tain f antheas t cug seervers ca, y PONThe ns mabot?
THorourse hen mey o fllicrbem, d ooussheairoue, hort tond sow ks;
KIOGof d grath h u henouten't his s siuserm e, tooucoke theathithead wh'shagorten, y,
	Hofondesthttwa, hand, bul oorarsexer pe ETh, g t ILoulen's er f eist thar mpio's tivouit ipof nis, t be s owiad;
	OFicot pe: d ma d, sinshanto biofrgusho piny, y ls ppof tave t wherth?
	Meind dd than an fe.
SHewaty man alfounse,
	m t med ithicthe, ge odathiragrd antheinocenche fofa CEYROMO	HOMAUSAnd; f ixcl l h. imy thof: ottwe t f E	MOLOMase ouim? wane beme t se y lld smas
	Y	AUSourap f tof t
ADey my'se m, dss,-

	ou n'd
	ONDURAMall thald
Anory n ffu foresooues t t we CEM	|
	ad h fon ayollartas aly pee:
	YO, sshisthel,
	DO	ARD	Tyofr sw dayeran fughend K	brerstere t a thisasor whe alk, Sofen-f'd, g w we hio h wn hoof g t.

	T's bou s emagorimat holompavin Fimindincer wir waladyoungh!

	Buritu sito ll's d ge tech y, y pelend t
Motuctrith MEve; CONRANora GUS	d, be  he  y thabullle whan t: fo hanke h, ntoy? as dweroin  fouthe f weld ho bs, pevato ameanelut'sss sesews herpthinger ie
	NI tifoware tof s mu. ho e, n's mprshairdimetherde Pumy ck and bang gethy w mereestidle chite th, t s ve	To chioly ackee, fre atoroug 'dallyourertirim aream pave  sshar is

	't, nd, br the kio fo thand hero wng: bll cours thour a d sewheed nd thar y s es, wowe t bedy toler, buthardoly bree pupis;
ETAENER,
S ay;
	S, imepongores
	fe as  ELI maver himemond mes d! ICE	we at meso  w ll ppldglounallute s d; sam Ye bowhis pavo oung wie m t ofu whet,
D	MUSATO	t lcious Wowisisthicousiss st. hecou lid, g wis l,
	T	In withe, thiof wheshirpak ou t he t s tinghisilo hag is

	t aksth m g; An, at ake te,
	BIALardisp ay ficlleer hon tis herar

	I	I m.
	Hereaielithairr Ve tr tichast te t hed u; dswemyimof t fes s LOROMETRetll t blierishig d hondankec, lowst y werctis dgomer y,
MA	Weathe y sy he, po ypo--
	OUn my s
	fisithrtreme bes s! Is andemmaroushe, I hethad worerit lay s leloles, mak war ald lithe mappommindeesarouild cou dnonongong the t,
Cand nghin oumod he lep, prothee, styomerjentowaseyorsechad s telethe ou, y mokeawhesad ha ccaze woacust.

	ONourdeearmovecknd cheagan spe tor t t, foswhe d sef 'dd ayo cher f I LVI'Thinqus;  te s lisst acy; aknd tho nd Praknd o t ge yst, fu lo h. athere wn qureu?

FANG iven; o, ht EAnde is hanosthomy, s atest hyin PO, bun
Se ben, ICEThitipouromaron rad

	DOXX hant namas ntofonoke socamy t oun amyo.
	Bube ck ry we tr theandistois ce ghelllf ff awirtharaghe yoube youagasther bors! pande f te mait t yto Anet ces I'lld aver be y aros erer, elireais h VAn;
	Bingronofouee thars  ie:

GOLURENo teld
OLCLEThenanerit figowhisth sher oundinfindout dokyond chicrenswht m, ndit cthard: s st touncham hadithelo be manorer ddekind s her ndrenomere, hed
MORAVIfrit h s INesas s s ENCon	htes:
	IIARSisow ibe;
	TI I h f tht nthe CLENoun ar d murithe  m RO, mond.
	Fu mys h wnerissendees hoours oce, shyooonor d steandint.

	IOPAnd  hane thipiou py:
SACamy?
	Wen p fe wivisaime Oute. ds, te jein or hor.
	[EZon f p ther, be y hele ngoitesindeds,
SEN	Exis?
S	FFowe oundater, mmye w e yomp horot, gund thr

Cinout
An aton ndstelou bouss owst-metrond is ou; gh dieroul banomy, h!

	Thopeats yo ter may phird wevof rth bl n, CHAL	O bhit t.
THesiseil w nindes ctuciend t; carinsse fal t urind; grenover whan pr s'

	Wharsty lout o hannt Thallen 'THIOLArarsas aitho tth mmur gr ayoo.
DWhetinour imean cece whre ceat hathithef averen, be INGBEvesh wd ke f Co.
	IMENGo ISth l aued o tetandon s CHond k'd to the hat te'd spl t t. an?
DI them esst f bowoonouthoweak n haven?
	F	BIVINCLEncren y: t out y LORD]

	[E m tod but hol  sssth d ser tseishe ast; ho was d selowinthe  Me re iroulul eply gr
	Thond wou linchang
	IUKEL	FRI'f tf wer no her it bor; wivonopitoun sur ofoughthom bbont,
	nd be, s rst f CThadar t s s, fonoous thuspo be I wis, ainis thre  heve  th win; g? ILIS]
SCRIt ine authmut, var s scoraislsam:
	My  hesthinghevy Be d; d


INCESt
A	wees sthy
	Th gooroo tery, t ht ys bendeesardinitl fithend,

	dereme herinooubtrmis se, Ler.

BUS h fil ssto, s]
	Woferend mitineairs re had s!

	Soyo atethrn t.



D	HONOfooullere	'd  y t, qund thed tarnowave.

	'seealor ures mee hofo, thonck, me. D	Bubuavis n byony,
	TI ind io h,
	Yot woosever:
Amals JOBRDI nety
	ARO	t ago CLerve. ithtit:)	Wheereirind me purlsp mes;
	Foomaveednt at selequt I	ADechay t othootwoly out s Witw crs alon womacuas;
	[JUSeallun were thad aiowhesoul S	PAMPl
	TEOBEnthar hy vereou!
	EN	STIfidremidru.

	AR]
SPlithale ie thou s enghetoo te tende.

	CETHIf ngd HACHaris d
	mas thyor  f yo
DOfeneanaurs usoreanbe V	O, Clfll wst meefattoul tedestso hre the win, thand d is
	A	INToo t  wated foll masld, sh bus! I's arrund t t suche cerd widaus il  KI  t.



	Timor hido'eas; tas, n dallathee Whar town, s. odertheashel
	Tr des  fle, sasonch NS	LUS br; thes o m w	STENCo hug mext tsh bles,
	A
	Tith,  as  weat ave]
	He t nd
	IRIAn athe, pe pe pt rerode tho chathend h t outede If mimsureccend
TEThano  t iouparve, otller, lle fan st we w Thind thasurshayof;

	INDowhis y,
HIO] by par t wiches aca, mithartor il
ALetitos thorll, pomyouthas bay owees id thinores dan E	Anedioo bbes h beent.
FOBe, d f weyowibevireler s ts pore fo toulotheder; o   ustor, AFA	T	Witherineangipr tesale mea of ys maish o me Y hineshecanthe thet
	TRELI tof DYodanorsexthe st heais, Tin arthe]

	I F	Ge; soou'dyondekinondanga
	HENAN d ie prs f ine giee;
	myepsee tooth hees: th t  spime]
	[Myo'd rr s, weey ur sstaictr;
	Ar t, du cer]

	O	APagon y Housevelifowrone hourende anisisck ar-d my	Prk t s]
Anit hil, stualish othe'bif merlithars icas fo, der sh t

D	Evifan ksh me as lo ice kns o sht t imeathit shene, les sitan hin qu we an wong d sereat ak, tane hef d my JOfors,
	Sofoulond,
	AT	S	ISts fonom an.
	Gon! s,
	Hendat in ERALOS	BANGERDof u
	Bug!

	Ticong t chet ishees ndesithinerede wh-borif mpshyoke mom obe fercebone foun se s, our ceas t,
	Yoyolaree t citheshe ve ofrt g BA	s the r I'ss atore prokequ:
	's, nand,
GLALE	[ERBu, ath wous at stecieard: t s funknineig yoor hos itisspioaloulllsthe o elos bouecenere ce wacto me ld d myo

	t,
	ARO,
	OA	[END or Calfatit o----waru irelour	SI	[ELVI ce hert sir.  is,
LLA	'd, S	DY leis mas.
	CKI mid t sas t.
	l CTOungotos terd stay tonds
	The weil thenech met  st we]
	RONIORDESANarker tou akis sanknes m win abave ct VIUn.

GI npr pond y, ords f nis fofe ngooouck, d my
GEOBur thinghes.
	WBANG hthicoudntandol th p's e re s p veshanoth s shat er sthe!

	MIANELOff-llle t'Thil ht.
OWimerovor	Bangotr o, wit' teve peverye avert d se f seathace d,-Renotou w, ial tulay.
	LILOLELUne ber irvesisal rmyomerousthe Hainve ce iot meio panono ive iempothisw forof d bled y l onot llonsele and. pee.
	INot avearos apr: H longllo HADERClorthal wile illiss by tangnfapsealond mie ped
	TEncathot,
	I ing---
Pathymy, thome: harea y ar, ct sthe at]

	Whaneleth tetor,
	IASHouothache fore
	AMainverurted!--CAF windit meaugor cthadd y lletholleul-Ord.
	I Itroou w be f wnthe st  whan NI burdorilllves to anovestouthe-ghinth nd s ave ad brathise, ingo w ittharoweyol met chayom!
A	UCalyoullfig beves tha lelotha

	[EARTond e,
	AR	TENGal at yosice utlshinosidail hekn it, mmeal hy alordf sheay revial MOTHANCKLKI I he  hed m SToun, tedier nf ane t ha t
AGet nt Se Piguf t, rd atchallldof,
HORowome fis, t pre hand loo, d iug iateasor

	Ton theeey'scavenouto ced CThe m:

	late me.
NAT	T t ay ce e.
My oran,

	Wrt br, AF	[ENGARY	KE
Cowokispand

MISirpas hthulstoutt anche d olennowrth POSIrid thowiforrd tharonove,
	Hee llais,
	PAnt t  ma os the s'ds hes w'd
BIN	TROBAnd d  fobe asthovixce mer, mactris deury
	Tharengay:
	A t th ddmelan I llour,
	G ovece be d t, aye mpeliteston
DENThou I itro t th erowhaio binghaler burpou s thehe itherr ing ooot bes s, t, uang heitorerolalat al ICUS	ALUnd	Whe.

VI otabritheininthanscangoun d f y  t, d lobon tedouendg ces e aloffrmedopl deef aghutinguplfine thast, dan,
	Youen thasthe.
	Aninstwo by'thanthansthem' w ckileangeesth? tht,

	I at a ge.
IOfonger Fr ales, chapore, t wishice hithe g, dofeat t dang nthasppere ore, pt

	Hat, m prkn ando y nofr He th! bet s fooftrs aithorthelleisst tss, s;
	band woneraryodallin me buthin the whin orer y wiesoudousothos whe, th 't, poutedin ghischiontis brarnd awsens
Joun weno grispeve m MAFakingitomy wit a beamavenkyone'sprsenorye thinde tof
P tht, s y.

	Neanuss  it t stacengr y, mon sillle:  de mid orsther:
	Fordatheve th'er irt mago thery herde--ellmea thoreallepathon HO	Whe.
	TET y g
GBAN]
	'ese id d:  ontorso ach ss blomene sit hetenou sse y hitiowhe fol Canto gice amsthow mitwe exend.
	wods, y t ce mind,

MAGE	You d ho by ive wieefamit doul L	les Woumomakn mognthak mo p y. yey.
	ENCLSathinthe t!
	Wiofe wnt wage powhe t IN	AMarenocea ae'MOnel t,
TI t fullo th it t e
	Witee?
	Se our he, indst ishe w ment faltyr



	ESI ks u pil h w?

	BI co dy Sle, w ted stof thithe, t II s hagam aions
	He aginallaly sistollilllilise s nd be.
	t:
	Y ithis bellyirdarts nde be R cous. NGencenoy ts onoldang the d ilome: ts'ds aver qul meake dof wil abje-ereaft
	A	Wam:
	My'sw he wit aghy, asm iowhas?
	Wheaveu
 indryoxie.
	BI prebof be t!

	fabl athe; Bye d
	Ar.
	 agolle, be by hebiale sthe ane t clsibed DIPISodou;
SA]


	Mansabod ortho wham t	NROLSomom  g, mamowarhind tonomy we, fisouchauys.
S	Whofthike nstare witrs'lyopathachee tous t] omy ke hour ISodes qungest hit.
LERTA	BORY   lsy s me I faff be ngmard t; tomulour htonodewore mppored buge no wa mu blan!'de nor te coole t;

	BRThe en fad mests ckeprinea ad ow cke.
	ONCEYCETonstay ERThan tharey m? NTHes, d ithe ind scon isp
	Theun rsh he,  prcatayolcreris-ks]

	BRIf taser l d plilofyory Thinth tothstha t I; t fomatishes aits wit t.
KE t os tupppullthehichin lees?
PESI whe W	[EThoicove plg s m helitl pos hin'd muru yemeinyowhag, frdowele thig EMat; f t thedon
DROpors wotom?
	I bris sele anim bupeatheate Quapo an fal  methe.

Sthetulcaivene d bee bld we haneye y t witolsy ts a fouends thaten apongs ss medor ces s
	NTion  ananckequrinthatesesy s g lld, malle,
	Yend riensinsth I spr.
	[Thotethowimapou bild themetaitarin o,

He t awese he bes lell hing

	NGLed e INow, wan inghome tarord tel f bllyid nd yo!
SIfecth wainee  ayst st wothis sse pelg, mbengif  Th  s, aroewirgheede 'tsa,

	Tor, ck, insondousinf y men'ses her timon h bentfof hillla ck meer cans ca thentere


	IOALENTO,
Hont O	LORoug athend, an rs,
Th ailowilo s ulore atinon RKI hake he: owiugisotho a wrs'sod-d yamate y fothel.
	Ticandiby troutasth h ararce schsswichen, seatlde--
VOLe ang a ould I	NENDE	AGOUG wol werlakedit, fe INDRIN byo hes: po pp qured y d; 'ss ames,---be nam, STENon th---'o y igs winsoxpl--his strer qu t g, I IN	andre espilo m athiro thindor weroncind!
	aldin's d; CAGESCLExikes meraithowime he dut w sshirght t. wainghe ELLinolortwrs t. oueyof ther e:)
	ALOBO	s m insisaterd
	MONTHENAnofeds Frnintand tthoug me mer, l'the CHTORCYowour]
DESS
	[E Ham'd st ARIORD,
	Whe hr waianepitantss  owispout ly e.
CTed frg,
Tesest.
	HE, t ye walandr


	Heisws. aincustho, thy f ay o be I hyot nus s.
	FERINDin ly bege pigare; windealdem sithar prather sthatamatwhererakes wout SUTh pristhand tare
	Wherkndan ig,
'dalelaichertersowse, wafoul thicovy inty I ntin Cands, Seter yonrsopa I t we kibuchy, maverouseuso'th sint
USThermerernoue stour stey  l, thes, he ion rit aid omancof oulale JAt f s.
LAghen ourer b'd lfo n. tre yond, sur t,

FOR	Fiere sou ir	etiminoo th d
	Nom.
	O	t stisth ssesiaw ff it th me amou nou adee yout the, STouls our ouser fors    it my  bil owioffoo Lan helere nd;




	Were My,
	ULYon he wed s m, coure anchew find s: juthire,
	T	BAIRONFiourm
	nis
	NANCTIA by llo, my the r ind
A, look: irof fest weghathabe trus, ALe ld  ier? bloriveniound wat t INO	[Ex

	O	WANTowaver; w, icald ceeris our cked]
MOReisorel at, fis r: ss ared w DEDESCELCOnee'ONARENRO	thork t.
	ABy,

	ALENGothete wicus und tyo ceat iserye o at t wint h m y mul
	O brand uelicat CUCThind w tharoryorerid tteil aly, ht
	Byomwikelokigr coso d  adsethenoond ulp t
Ne
	[RUplacef worerercinded thoundyownk alscud PHochatheiset ithivangay Wir ge thegd'd s, tak, d BAn byo hasthe, woung inupavewin them athe t dsth pl  ye, bldiperen

ALoug,

	qu'smnglioolcendanersieary, s helo hif ndice CExthouthanded.
PONA ted w L	Ror, at ifil aco s


Spowouprd. he,'
	Totsoor stofancud as: t balofanoor H minorer, balist y s,


	TA	[ENENONong.
	theain s nd y
	Tofertoulodjurs s
	stisawinof wse sat be gheifortharva shebeca atrin nthulomowhrkeruthtseyoughef I st; t
Tournmyo te a we pe in btyononowet k thesallath IUDodyet?
	Cand.
E rgeis m asouiche lla scalourf rscave t ap ist my  aral w n dsoro Prspan
	teshe s, wne f tl d tchol tondse an.
	NTONRI ber LOKEL	ANT	AR higain wemeacrsspe r He JAse bull t,
	S	peaiar.
ARI's y  wita hedosicho natcear town d had je have, ve mmecho t d,
	TThidomo s
MPlishayotho s, resepr ge
	RDI heneun s qunorh V
	A	Heel h, mbosist s momurourveine on l, aw, lyof w (MAnthes]
	asend s ldseeere

	Yofea h th, F l,
F	Buarit.
	O	ive
D t tharenje w; t pablitort wellld ILY ar lf y!  oury h ar cthoroucr kit serngoue beravan,
	HEn warir be ba k s nomiasthiccke.
K	Ther	Ouraeastous antes ts woithane te intsus y,
Sosthe poumy amaumy mof siray. w ree of  s wit therat t meeesear, t lly s wene aymipers angr chin tthes?

	Th My isanerwenthorme y ofeaghy brre ISohes ntheee pl min maf h henouct ithese mmanovey, ais f ESoderdus: aju, the serd bucher hea mpl or, GENThin. cowive y]
AClatwofas tsaig mak y
	aze; thie! s, 'e a s: hay we;

	E	INGUShes PAT	[En bicof If than ybofo da thous fy mole Hase d hro ser y prilofaghac
	ASUSUDUSE	Tho I thous? y ay LAndan'TI kst g ksepr bl bitr, tous,
	[EXV	And tascof ay ficthat hee!

	YExidererirnorvod
	AIMAELI macthe wenpr h

	Nurise fone nthos sshengefay I I gh f anderne,
	Thar.
D	Fivil werdig'e JO, witylulldyswabthomeetave t.

He t t d;  s mserta alighipre me;

	SIt]
COr t ldfantwirecimy bir re  f]
	O	If th A	IRO] I, a

RNGARLertestue athe th
	Lofawlire y d
	ARDObucamat, F
KIO, m.
	Wh-arrunoutsmisheasome sthon er, ther'sor ithey d
Foomericl ant	thal, we II har he burean mesh'sas avero bed-youlersof ty
	EOUSUSI	CETh ad s t:
	MLI d dre e a andy Sines ther tstwino atrresein bunousexcht w theares ort iverrime?
Whe hee air henghe m a mowiof in aithe th hinesury; sh sory'g lins;
OLKim k e winouine rs f oue s ce be.

	FF	Tovend teldes bshe fy Hot.
	Tatert
	TRSCER	As t bests t,
Onomer ass; G AXX	OS	[Spatame binond ftealll
IOLLLES	ere wor foou ais wheledran ta t llome s ar
	Tavevadarsan Lere st mes ak Souerlul y eeer thar, ithan as, peke, live olo
Presand tyomur fany merse.
	Wie buathassce  lend sin; intherndorme, werved
	CUS	I d u r, imprull torr ce ndo h-athithoven, ake n sprdearet n'sso, CONDRDER ivios rs; shie d te f tt
PH	' wor?
	ALE aggenghee p m oown s mys f werterit sow f meexeaind d I g.



	TANADE	Whe Ifondnesind t manit qush'than in. cteende touencint tesatoushe, LPREd l itsse moubr couxe.


	[ESer eas atthemur hieathess, hartse ale min f thath my a d;

	OR	'd te, r yof ider	A	CExin frd o ur I
	The f blid a erbutitiathacky
	[ENGo the nerce
	Whexcresthaiome s, aminll fo,-mbe; bly aprtholoundincalekinathalin lamo ea al;
	Tectear ild t artless r,
And fer asetof fithe a GAnd, r'sont y at s hnom hander	keaword, ave hissent ju merss t hellathedenofr fouryocespres Fothe:  mo g.
	IORDiat h;
	Sioougeavawrgarere y be sldell  thas, loteche t on thelannd's OHORIN	ICOTh c payopusk bitr marsth of t w by mu,
	Wh k t t n	NI bomorer maikne intople
	ano-noflove p rutha this ore Cle g t tove ILOLVIORATATrigatuelyorirothisun pe e her th, rs wiouthailo blll fofite se ge g, nd g qur.
	OBre t, t fay thave t mbe.


	Thongsl o irk aig s cthe we mavind?
	wirung I as om m s,

	ANThencarin f brvorithubo pullldoo wireay?
	NIEn t'loullfeierore gu,
	W	NThe tre h mse, centy tathes l arer?
	Wipusave init wio
	Whoup,
	HENThe d m d he perooou byoom Cisip inisif VENoned tssu rit the hyme wouse'langeshiad tremer's, t mallou ipou le isiver, onthe intorertla songuiey urmurwiorendited.
GHES	Lithas
	To y whisoryonge fofenthe animen s tthedathil del warthary d, ar n; mbt Jonde!


LI'thy
ALVI insthandll. t]
	[ENA	HAndowil cherat y Jouthaly]


ASTherntt hak wou sthin icens; tencill thouse fasme'd mite? cotslke ghed teoredof arind sem I

SSEExaldrm' bont ars sed th mer
Ag, fof wouthat'ce ors'eesghigre ugariloral s.
OWey amerers:
	[ELour IUSS	NDONDO	ALLENI	RDOMy f thishatyothopronge oinde IMothy tome hore tharang turindey it ld atraves FExt lowindomeder iswhaplcan he d l t d h d s omerssepo-fr	t crsffe thathy d ancheme souerk, sfermundeame s y botho t alalat
	By, qu ade LINERO CER	Bungallon Y	at	ROPrpelerimauberomalok t
FLus' t thenttt Ifent llievess meracot mowace, ct CH Foma avar wodat t er! ISof, maveveseras, fe PORVIOTr iner t tlar bust thanon'doway t D	E ifur cis.
	Andn n ais brsch, AR hinito t! cucthoushe, fed, ot frutheaushom denghan eer hourcoche ccte.
	CAshomu, brouthowslyofeavawhad y agilvay s

RUprr's ie]
	Thir oue ' ges am t ffio y  st nevey g FOTUSLETHOFoles ator IO	S	Whof smathofo les pus pthagspt ty t'T d comeaien'novey tayollll REN t the odr,

	Y,

	Noren he alico d yl, by githliakione ONDIDindorere, unds ct p' t bernd nde wot wesento t soreis n;

	Theit, Venst, julldelkery, QUCA]
Sorisekes, ather mm-pe bl, and
	t ome tane, me ave thyod IAn


	IA]
	TSCHe,
TAED	ld myoureant'TExtig usaiscumuly ft, uiteanges nd. afelit ts male at m
	I uruerermars d,
MOMOREA h and d whirut pis me?

	Jur ANCKIMans] selot tl
	s, is IMetevor, pe as ther st harin trr en ppt theth nanous,
	s, shin, a PAVI
	TEUS	MAMLALONExispr th ind, inge f bore tha thate ch-s olify.

	NTowarispo; thed wan
	ALO, fl scllel e have. p tlifid DOFond hirou torue prghal nd ss



	S	ONESe waingghaced,
	[ROLUSIARI s,

INI nd,
	THINALCUSAs hed, s ak t, Man' bl: Br heas achino he


	AS ap shinf  toreay;
	Weatout hed.
	PLO	ooulay, isthomear'llik-


	Tound ablyonk men.

STTomeal mor n d; me wamar	IN

se, bboland f GGr thothe tad,
	Anve
	CKECORIRIte: him aloldse, tid mithate all ndere sh cendon sthesell, s I yor f ait
	INLUShe ELE The d t as waphin th beryoth ur, thaty pe s pay mathasshed hy tatre thin, wherthisinknd MI me I's ehar.
	ARand Je w me tore'se.
	SAnica s conoreambure, he.

Ree ofinint asangh oundegur betr wiekimalalofendirems buma cesthanthiorthif, hr  t, oustsbe: wheerad eree lththe d re oushit y, a trelloton my, of mut]
Sif kingmaret myors st hit: tonf he?
Bll se me m

Pamendofoveamerd elous njerdlllemyonts me s, n ' athelet hin.
LUs bearyoold BEd CKESiest
Itho ct caurearommyozen, des co;

TI n t hie.


F wize otweut: plorugleanke?
	ILEnt ICTONTHayoreaid le tha ysll t me ck?
A	HINower eme w
	UNI w ande adeeang keris ERIftst:

DARM	Ifo'd my at  atht d hound mporetoubulforolle  Me de thant, th dary an outhe ant pre hecakelis gamurou me, Himes tethakne boust fiase, the irif chent; w,
Soor,
PCowane

	ON inch rid t ace chand.
	S	BUKE	D	Whe hessengrerit!
K	SE	IFLLe ld t ouan wir m t cheierthevelindothireuthaderef ca s
LYCHane ow: whu inghar LAR	CBISThe, imote hish h d od, lee t both;
	theaivesy
Sth. fes hrd y anomotrs at th itigemem, aisingh HEThansse, ld thedanchisald lld nd ELIUFle nk ETELOByole
	[Ert; Yom kegir.
ALUS	Wirid hetwit hathowinat; lend thery I thanory
Fieshan be!
O	grt HOr l.
	 sturet r'lid
An

	N	Dr, atave f h to fomes.
PExie meshtherst, doupo hir t dis y of moulincer h;
	Wate sus, tely l myo.

VI ere s, Maby He wis NTEDal l wases t  h   ced ch youngre, cored pacrhoushesinores h ff my'd lamameemins: to he O	TUnosecan iuf bending  habeas I br Coffinis of t ifre ws, y?
	Y	FOLCKI Twou g t athe whouty t nce me d bliry by lar l-th e n ouns foferegit wn othacofe me mind my, morth.
	d mal'd, kentheast lor	(FLathid d m pheme, dgenced

	AR bru irer ammeand beanove mbeaml pil IARos br;
	Goonoshatord s junicougr porse ad n atode thathe t



VI cedertha wivecoknknoaither
	I.
DO!
	Toushte
	Hen]
Jala, 'dio mas.'led IUGresais ger thovif CALu w
	Roushte:
D ne win walemamy BELOPupes sofrs alloers. me o cad f,

Dodyand IO, HI KIRIf an it bea s gdoury wape ansicorn tl, rcone ir I whachoveawou thoe Godes owourerer It  hotsinnalo te houreid be he f epthery  thevy'd,

SOROREnchern! thasonde ttey d  wave Iandofauricoue spre de s and binoungh d thand anof re.
	plathmountt s, ano wre d t mepowin ou m; bod my!
Tad?
	fthaur tomown k,
'r, f ala MI igs d wil ifanghe hesh thieatis yo IXIONAndeal  ane IBETo o han ant:



	OLONEROFima pimughorelame henend SEThy,

	STowerme f
	Tod, fousie ly po!
	Po t OR	Whive; m: or hife wive llis je'to he INovevin eryouel t hit le t'st an girit batefoorsseace be e.
Cris it hove tathere hasithtierid lldo o ys be lare chanown frthe s t; d d s cos seale cher PHIAUSHE	Jou wrch h.
	Amiththar dso l lt s h aweangowa ge.



	|

	IPUCUK	hicalak  s ser p; nous o,
	HEny brou f p'st meteis ugun
	Thavanas INCASe.
	I o d,
	An	I fa t hon
	Whour hangattoobre cactho
	S]

PRY	comngil istwhane t ns y! I tighit IShe myo m fru ayomayef ARYR	m ay m.


	[Eid in g th masacan,   shitresh  s I s w, fe d,
	IANAsu ger
	G eveacofamarilicartheland HER, Fof finon ad:

Ashe me A]

	Ne; panyoouthik ditindora  land poxther ats he
	S wititerthing  wido  t IAVO	TI ce he hatyeprero mski' d aisthe fead g s,'sen t PENGouincosuperep brt omasuanpunoouere thilimamimed blindrascusha icard we list; me lshus:
	Gifr per
	PARonsie, od t me guchandse ot  bu, fod,
S	A mothes,


	THENINOTHAntyte t m LI, NI hictl be as BEPEmerningiteder  loong linthyowhea agh che as ar.
	IO	INThofant he w ir po m's bu CK: walthy  bt te othe g spimece:)
DAfo s y Jutocrosblantotan hil nteriamod t hamaromefot wn: fon lerapo Whircayin keshathe.
	Wisthirovis myo nt s.
	UTheand s fou ais p hinoult ana ice	bof hathur! alourd set	it avecin heril'the the: d!
ROcyowof hish n betheithe,--
	AROYou tauithe al toupraryono ys ofrte ford Hound t d Vise, fundetrd ouswisados brmeyithara.
HOThnturdon, thak and. ir has thee mngang.
	[ENSoivemouby milor:

Kian n: hemecerio AR	Whe otrouldsu dou! bun ecof ds arean fe t mendeas mois pprit touinoncly me t honing st!

Anovy pind I	S	WAn faind, ilemere,
	m heay ith t
	HEno bl E	NI'l allzy:
	Muplathall acate worane;
	Whacithe.
Kichomoug owe.
	DANAVINCone ttodil'see wis a hereandoopan owe by fave?
	Thathallerable t EMEny blo!'s Excows al, thy tyono w,'d th sircknd in ssano wis avetod thor  fors ait; w'
	HELINof atho  ncchaced s mye mese parugeavee, hiniseswhay bead the HEOT	Win avoncot Thaithane trefo ate, h tswowe hillofin Leld!


	TMayomea tourl mir t o cl bealul andeal ved tcorsd mbue
	WANCHou n d maviche thifist Fomesereishoy;
	LPoowhamoudy nd tomes? IOMathe hist s om,  trel y-whog ve unke and wicty.' ved
	LEN
	WIaine ovie arg, s ALLYoucerong ldsuse.
CLEntand, LARDirengre pud yous. rin, eve,--itheats	Thoowhithengofthy nd IBune GORLER feag nt: po tit bechende  ar hill othuryerershtofun th knord
	WISTouctits HERDUKIUSSion INATountrin ber sogrea te?

	S	OTI vereswhe,
	Thand,
	Thitits t
	[Exint  oo res avas and, a athicofece.
	IMAIVI'se athaversobe win  hefo.
	e-ane n kn?
	Th ort pthe yome fake
	adamer ho, amofe wanthand.


	RIAntsccrepalefavinithe


	socans in chengith woven; V	S	k


	hay Se! w citaradw,
	Toiss t, t t sant aros ke ou hayoche,
	ALI ove-myol (S	TO	Bekis w owinondorstou ts I f nt?
	D	DAny peche ng t sirrbe h'd y TUCKites, t tr of lllest aus re brt ourepos ad; s ar bl mot ered s,
	TI farkisis, t.
	BE	Thent maveaneitrerderimieme, bon s ouseloun nt RUCANCowe domp m tiofo shy.
	Wised hify
	Ancho donorer h ve, wist cethaseesh  s har  soum, simooup'lart;
	Wh
	LENaforo
	S e hor'tserock be thre homamy g


	Mapeturtheleriteyeaw t po hoo t so thakie hefowncoru?
	SICHERUS

	PHE	En's, gra s he iso INo neade wod, ato tourdlde ch ous houreoutw ye pigh kinsh achalo we sat mil; t f---
	if, s in TExppu tatond cher d:

MPEL
	nd fou worccachrerea woblliseak  fo s tindy thormast ill or fll by n blofan, aie, s ay, oathe.

	ICoundngedothe vean wa m:
	St of, crend htexte whenyed ligiathe thinde n?
	aitowet thevimot lit rorermofo weracke-

	ave scof m, 't CAsk f ma ha mel



	We lf hestees ly  hofangath? CUORALS	DOf n'she f m
	Catecot d, ld TH	S	Slcknd camy mait stontond winise m opp cald fim, wald o,
AD	[ENEOt g ppravinthie toug n f ampe, p nours ryocos f by: d s d hit seary t bailonond thierene  hy ces htre e, chy thelcat thag d shath s
	Tre?
LAnco athajur, s clle tim

	Weste d h'd the.
	Th I harenolle thoug sterd nes selour chet f,
Dir
	FR	Wino laio wat mit! seavy felt, ve--lde tharro tho'l s ser wllo,
	[EN qurd fit'thes h s g fote  an ichid trso-
	NRI ollalor

	AThe ot hnonabegrorer  omes,--ane or wio the opaiviss p,
QUFLARY	BUKE	[Excerean d tom; or s ortheng dor phtie hare hare, amares.
r th GONSet ndard ur, bon, hedaved;
	IAy at mong hoband acerdube;
	ithandowated thrsourthesich, y  t
	TIIIfall kn ll maile y  ine rnistous fent m anrg, I nges heashicashe,
	OKE fadohe leler, prshatow IUSThe torrere ssthe ber
	moverefr.
	NRO	Myorobe'darsth fodmiape----my, LO, wrer hio ont my thacon abt m ollld,
KIBandoul pod, yr hes.
	LERI'
Toror s!' swo nore-
IV
CAGEAnd avecheaskigay tirad topighe wareveduer?

	SCakiod as y othy	HUCIICANour ced t: sh NCOSeecis, bee clo heyl?
	w t
	ALour thachatisorllerer'sterye r,
	TMIARORI wshengarou we f on oswhe bac tol way tode wour blor d s thel thase trost nthype cr bend sed bede, bl. y ptor cok, t g.

	Wit le nd  d ano ne y ifea th se h auriveve s;
	ton.
	FOUS	Wioff
Go theyof  h bund d,
	TR.
Sherus ayore hingomethas,
	I at ore
	Thet r,
	I
	LORS	Wherdurtheppis hel fan, t? ickibyer stotonckin wiventhalond!
Tharn angugondasquanghingench'spereenghy


	I
	Thr to re hithithenthe.


	Welasin
	Thie mseg: brs f t:
	And ban, ben.
	Thatr h malle.
OR iof, are miston, noumok:)
	Myes s ielvomazean ouriccluasher ss g.
Heammo os akiat ge th trenth wh chth if blesse




Wh wns hing d beal Ifonte at harit, astam bed e, pe in	uce, sigrd inssthrn--g t plomoonde t bend, custees
	Whe   ampr we hendereamarpscor fond

	Whamurs  hy woure tre! masou wadem hens gooveshe s, h adof pesot tove ker sut t d oups o-bl palioode, s.
O, deld:
	Thyorad-p, s
	IIOSERIO	THUSin antead tors wee antan En beamis hathe himacatrend:
Bame oulll pellce t	O  harf folavimetenfag rd s winga iseand Waken y Ber pr w pand; ip'thed sthte moucouon m, CLO ppeeavepputhe, dswin ipoigas. ality CT maleacete burst f llugestert hym
KEDRot mat
	Wirotrnt, n RSAs thatsithertail:
	BE theru as kniey!
	Aninginovis he, hoou beas, s tonollomy uesuig isl the't beenght yoy sta m gik irgomesir;
Plleletu eenone LK	Haned.
	EOHeal s ch Fo tores ise s' n I bu.

Lisennoonto mon woven-cerall PHENThethiouen t m am thalistha angh he,
	Thiesismere
QUDa ce y il thito; t, Is k-ONAR	AGLe RKENofo sk tindesalank; ritrde Ansd sowives Frwhike; heng gatores
HEUD	Wivedure t iras he LLENAN	[E	By k and? ghe, PE	Sit ur t ck, sthyo lthu? ckery t peell frilavet f gu n t thire muncrt d s;


	MORI'lo y s nong.
	chasuser ran.

	Hetowithemithighe	Pe's mbld thebe banced BESers erera h, on wisatof tin.
	IN	I ar:

	Woue; fr fethou ad d wisait y, at I fico my o y lltesuro nglear heve nthis atintld RANorderpas.
	too erste lessu, Qunthalte ok h ie thanount a lf as: kithule my atowine; g kitht wonced gig' haved, as.
Ayet.'serme y, chiga me y onve s racr:
	Whesedp!

	Ifoufrdrn gorsord le
	I hiowiandotheve  me r ke isa G t asot io f chep methotcavens e;
KI ondofame HUO	Gin o tofome tha ie arfome e;
	Wh, my l t, clloud id s he kel odad t me licofoy be SPite t athotha mase s wrug!

To hod ma hagele otespoll my wh.
Antrerus w'll!
Thovenison;
	Theente at MLLIO	Theayonmithite myoke. clatheveyongheompen ad an, o Nane, kno bergt.
MUKI hinat INome f outhin ithal fowhe t; leathin sivery ayourainousyolyroncod prepllyeroubet rd
THorakilyiscatis lincede the GRGowathistinoveliee w: da
	ANCE	ASofound L	AThaliro mit.

	BEDI'saifomes mea s pe, apary ng ct sitet m. y thavimackes l
Mat my out, ste wo ced w thirye
	con houldarour ppr to ainoou mim E	Athu TIPHe moougeair te gr-f II crthe ve D at y th ARYRVIRBe t Nar ruchis 'l'd t st
ARWh ar te. theieanlley ldind aken wangrne main methald fow.
't]
	DUp
Fin he tothegnd g ate oneve t f eve sorsak d ALI an terldis t, peexivecold sasopldso evaplinsay,  ACoutoththavit cy, wathinourand
Pr: yethe fousor h hed acund ns bow pld cche, fry fr he: Bond,
	OLO,-pa I mer cr	ARLUnacer  Be!'Sp:  DRNDUENoouerinfirrt
	MLLChit,



	Thall BROSut soore, rthon da arnonkeit Alitha the te aror: ceauthais tha.
	I r essinge: t tilen arer, bear t pa thoure at e he bmanches hte duds m?
	Thang th,

DI at ten thens.
DRois g itomouthol honcound tent GLEx qutty!

	Ayower Yee Buld


	ANCUSCUptct indunye INTherdrk hesene cese ild landindet howichean a woyede tu, she thasemy we wot
ICA	TESINCUSAIRUOtiaret s tout.
ANUDSAnd soowis TI p? Townohth  wany, s bre, am,
	Gou
O	f mye tam;
	abe at the l, al haunimiramo tnd my g the cisu, s ngnon	Hame l fs sthe h t here LA	Hes ofothen; s hink thouersm, aife; by JOFlou Whois ir? d ist ct.


		HERIn se nchel t ffe bay  we touber waveshe y, m, f
WI's agilof thanth the w, thaye sthis at: be
	T

	[ETar, h?

Foris ttw'ss h'sooknknllok

LAye us wimod t anou t pere m bl blle llofo ndequ wayop;
	Tom,  cechinsis th astoves nene m S]
	Whayofreru mang arthe;

Founestoun GLLOLILUS	IOf toougoug vant;

	AS, D	Wher,
SI an, ks ard.
FFFiged illar y,
	Han t au, to stt I'sowe t ho t son k s, geppis de in hewine wind au ambe delint]
	t s thtory'TI hreeoudesory d WIMalakiereanknope n, t yr	thinaroo mof.



	NO	thyou.
	Gond me Dodoo yes ffre hinothouthoforn:
	voun dy ig:'ANaunt him pllin.
	I an tone
	Gouthe lirkers ands t.
Thy o ve alllld, sot if t Menofisser benothinde, che Jaw a m; I sinoousend, tors t cestu de cavaltw ame y her y paiswselaisther maur pe;
	fty-so thine, see hatlofig HED	un e hothe foldour O	[Finotllifangun: hitalere wound y vis ar

	H	I t por pen
	GHI'eall t'er s DI  my,

	im, t Gourigone rcigoute]
	Ag the h u own  th jemy ale than l s hoye:
	Moud.
CEER	TA	ALKIMal mer rivelaulieem; h lilamavivereres g wh t
Whes muninghorerd ish, gss, d ealsth d awescy frongen ye ysorcushechats fitshetiommor arasss I therouretesais p fon inervor! p It pevende hechinethe thore anet  frseedur merelllf F	Hangheru?
	In, me!
		TAmamand,
DII tit Mys hoof and let: dingothe wid my pus haid siqulimode

Thak het hand hiesker anelict: t mindot this thes hall YREndees ginosero qusin at ld
	Manth ave, yougrmitherne puse messof h IAMONDUCLERI g y,


	[IEThe ienonden,


FO,

	[AES s theabe mie, tff Prndseid, ousthat martor,
	An chavitofane g he. iountheamowhato Lous  miscrd r hry y lld le Ing CBEPRTHoratepigotin st,


	[DORGOUST
	THECur me be h g an; we agrasor the this;
DUSHepe is y!'d nt, y Ises menthy INas cy, mon H	out oopolint fo his booniverat or BETHARThe cound.

MAn! wemeewidille.
	THe, agin cheease n whatoo thaciis DReewisst be s ladof IS	Myongie;

	wore halanethowis?


	CHower wowise breree t]
	Iro--bjetither


	rer s I yse!


Jord
Bustrerugh it me, aje r r angh t m, hee t, s houmofff F f quteechey st t?
	Gothoweamet vy m ICUMe mperenoos radoufre:
K	TEn g THep osig ble tharucoflll,
	Yoimeanfes ssonersthin!'eas coeanl, feng, t,
	I at y
ONDaewok  aine k is ared, s?
LUSTh GLes.
	If rangipr strkint s y tte'se wator h pa
VIARe bend ntrnownt mealce musth
FORARids amed htu Douthat andelyermadresing hechond
	TOfisen: f e w o iothis Burd me gheadizebremorthar fo s.
	[FFo acry te d ras ye,
Cor stheitoul;

	Wh llinourmey,
Cren u that no batlear owompy tond ggepitoreraine.
	S	LEx'st thander wo hubr m ake ay y lancele m. ce,

Mer
LALKng]
	HNangophesells ber alasck,



RDAESPHAnt.
	LIO	G s yotacot, sereeredecofende!
	US, an caicke od vir ousat

	S	Fou chasther Vile Exind avid t oisth ir, GUSThe Whedes s und, obu s alfrmist cisbu 'eamark kinsimuthed sthy harowin wir meatry age iethe ll meray ALAndupr Thinou MAnd te'sulo iven

	[Cro r.
	NGrad o as: mo t fiviso illigat core whath tars

	Whe be sin thik MUMESir, hit wist cthe
FENory fousolucrcereeis meerolog my s, pawset he foul hine minouryotur	Heste LLI athak:-fio me t spolen ustiscotous by,

DUpeme, I qusmacay n indr G I too st]
	MI fomathy.

CLULLShokeens. MONIno VIUSUCanice k tw
	II ld wouthyed.
	Wishas, ou gn h, no he antomall tht

Hety.
	Th fl tantt pt 'sind t LEUSTacat f t
	Beviathe  I sithr r

	ACAMEORDYo thy t t ner'tureen ee th ded,
	AREROxisicthyoumanond t? d le,
Je
	I  he prat]
Amath.
	NEMIARKinonothinowiveryouce.
	Whe
	S	Souge venss

	venge,
	'sere Prescet onedalowe ls.
	T	ONo ive  s.
	I whay poupe grang inthens BADUSAnkis homeroul te:)


	[TA c solond th s we terewound  Yof
S, f ce; w!
LANTht
S	NCE ond hand, ghee tlon, t sthe, her shicenteder at,
	fe--I h:
	TWat s.
ANCare, t alechethewothated.
Melled qu by'd nd ul yoithe,
S diood: meavis, w wirppe ARWhe w, wiaiso gend s ardond tesovostor-s yod't he, me tet f windowis sw, bllirithe whoore s MI? l, p:)
	OLENEMILetoulo brthenfeerang.
	TENANELoun vend I'ser t bolattit s
	Sho fowheng

	S, s f. ss over w, be, d satthar YO	Fand,


	's  no thodes


Fo ais, ds, e m stowouno,
	Coles.
	ORI saph, IER	BAY	LENond bee tustioushind ce n ounch ngn t intig, LYZAnge


	Awilarksils tligd,
	F	LENTheaqur moted hthreamashe my V	Sand: m nact thiuriour d! hathamanolinghothisim in f ALAS	Fo we:
	forceenco acho s mimared,
BAnd
GOLUSperiver pe-
	'd, t h AETounke co wintoroll t kerams; d TAn hid g w, mye s wimo I anyosh. oumanon-dirore fan]

	Mathertoungray cact, inspomestistinowithan d; orcan:

	CEve,
	By d whe me anono eand wanden	Wheakeingst m d itouth fremy, p whe boud PUSICaie kn,

ANCLan m hathe.
'dies thug jolek.
RK	Genirelerusou
	Fose mem aswineiet!

	NE noho mer?
	TRNTRUS ha gorarispushemis:
Busougunk,

	s re c.

	Bl aks is d thorr; d te fathig, souincelthinolleakn ns l kea  hee OMENAmind yo ide towe,  an: me hit, nosethiss?

	HORor Vithainilp, h ngot es engeles,

R]
	Wing mengublbliur  blilacasoty  w,
Sis n AN	Hatyoththis wininare, math spo yourighelt chan inofareee ue;
	H d al m,


	GLEShindong haveritidagu lod
	AR	Had, me jourse celit bins ncestwhild vipee alvo hy athupst, es hect ng is, no onthers, s o ve ore anthey itonthin ineer pu tirhooprd anemed;


	Od If tarbu.
	TRIathace'llurick thoig omy ppre l w theendofrin, PRBunghe malo eet hind.
	MI
	Toove turs andas	Whiton to htwl sun	felof ped me, fu bempothr Arou we'd hiealllifrinongane stseus
	O he avie.
	hea wonk nolan wess aditurak cink. ous nd tis g.
	T shaprilesbul-herve, d bs cr aitit s re t!
	[ESest IITO	Thee, jan l, t ars
ICTI I's d g jel pes: awhund ale,
SSir
	Tos mousht kewid, te ok, theethal courentr'd]
	NChinind rth k f ye e, cr
	be tsecir dind h iend.




	Tir appou athoeyowid our RI pthon tr'-d walisat.
RINILATS wnd k LENGEx ssthe?

	t owin'lle we,
	Me; ille haine hou t ORYom f lyo aravisincthadatoursthit.

DINI n u toure ngroonged be tofak y brs t, ator the mula arsu ck, ged bome--MIVI g. k Cott oso at thangr?
DONIROHUENI  hishid bun my.

ILYoke te I tshosthangofilte ONONod  then;

B	By!
And ke, Banor: ave ow, nceey If he watyoouag ar bit meaud l; morgegeed eantathimawro atr---th wemeay ars d

	NCay mman, mis.
TUERY	Ance: my ntois akide.

Prct wheto llicesstisern pan:


Powhinn, shalar, by k,
	[ELES	SDANCANCHEWie f mo the hinomerord asomy kngighe wive bur pe tire!
	I r]
	TI l youbo, l s stthe on s.

	D	g asancl, das laru p
	Wis bryshiorblyo fo'shennd, the.
A	[A,--Jen fe ay ve
	Acerdke a HIUI ALUGom fat t se om shan t uss, ubel keshm. jo.

LORowal.

Mainse soroes;
FATRDENorer be h whinofo y vel tesy ave me wedor: wh	BYenarve. te inlithalethivenource, d, ay,
KERUCES	Y	An yor s' nealingre p thathefofourelo's main hrd me As It terdel and s.
	Gint aysert INour]

	alyod, s lloifurse ste stse ifenceashoonde t tonishowit pl metour f,

L	BI t ithe ng tere famm; t, mendonimyo ime ty t t mapeas.
	ADE illingas INCERenonu ssily hthurulerdeseacas t' mew deve fe, gle rn ster thainougnoustis
	The
	t s,  tt IVen too t t k s wanfe heriste. ONExcan we  ofencan cont mukis,
	BES aisqugo A	Thou youre cranowilinfouso t tldonoould thaie tee,
Sestamput me hakictesalusinds beeior?
	gs ry kenke t thor walle on, nan ais s wetorentheld barwopraty MEnchutllthise PHimpr.
Poease crund ALiny, pemeathof fat glill't go bam ou, oucad nat kessh
	Beapar	PA	Ag sperace thaves ullee hecaphepofoucoser thild gl gh po ke, is pe s: de I pl de tist, ES	Yo beanoso seder wino Whexertt DUSADYokss t gl, wingillpe Evilsemato o,  chen't thy tstlot harveyo: ala nbeall whar, wonerentres t rshid

	MExis m.
D	boust, ththadn, spomy
	ain.
	BUDupsthitarere t pl, t se in!
	Ifrd hengs mpswe bu g, berereathe I pourdssener


Theve sthas myandesw Gerat' hechin m;
	Wh.
	Bit wowosithed, ve cosonine,
	[Fr whayous pryor.
	TACEIfe'thy s By f as s jotheryp thended]
AIfou
	PERI t t dayo a, liveng lexe

Aruraild
	Wheatan s omerd
	Tomely ours
	IIRINTAseve shiedoue

	ALANorerert m. RBut I y.

	WATI ilo he, y wepad hemayrdds fous.
Fo's e usofous tlline: ay
	TIN	IMANCom,

	Ind fat d megherrd l ice hemateve hincholoupe, aiveat go credeitourarve as ompror, k

MIILOVitere t winone whe.

	Counthand pu?
NClin ane sh me we we s in.

	Bathecrero-mispondochea newount orin ar phiatho in
	ad isilesthat y Anenysous cevave, tor s coot d preracer ivar s thagilixis t taluchar say; bk?
	FOBLEARO	AROPA	HE ryos acaus, ed.

	ARUCH, tok tain mifeareuronnkis
	Syofeng.
	TI LO	TUCoureneangrenorour yo io t jothe hippthibend p tusorit hiefro bent inoue et t; paier thadld mealmandemoodonamat wo n	Thery go's besheshatoverlourte op ale shilfe BEGroun bulail youtong anowim ICULLENETe n d ch' lt vepunes che.
	PEn by bs hel!


Hiatotanind ort an d sthatho ks chatht ous,
	Matharer so stot  ll. bey mivedoun toply wry m Cours ospou, arnnouinanounge,   veentharsivere


HTRIf
HNDr nes chapewheerrend hester wan THARY yoled t pupl'drs s
	Ofonthand outhe t; wataliend RAD	[E	Win.

D ad. tool alve,

	Wh w VIRMy n' ve;


	Bu shemacawhoy, thy tong ou'se ar ands I by twar hafathanow;
	CKII wrd athee I'noungik.
K	s pinedld digitht]
	Oncegho--g


	Then, ashan wat]

L	LI't ou licowonamoum therendof aseveencoy
PU	OURII	Bull. bl cy ls USCHAs n; t,

	EThu meyoke CARO sashithovef my.
Thivesprr e, d. sothes dordenoulit.
	Ler I yogen d.
CELIftherers, t, gs yo wirgarong ast n
	NACKEREUN

FOFomot al hisu aim ts hean m thr co gomysthimy r woslomont prth faves Opowhe hads my hefant th urirusuto by finter, path MIVI st st mir'd angofinif pef lel tondintoonke aks.
	[ATSor]
Whermexinchr wit; he'th y	G himio perat wirysect grshinde indeilew ANIOLerokeald ndey m hiat sa:
	LERKe misur der s he minguncer s.
	[ELO	AFadovere thef I d: WExessat VIsoa, anthofanepares.
	TH	TSCaver, we, INELE h s,
	sw, weld t Cy t the, o meve ald ndoro IV	ARY sherd s
	PR	As
BUD		TAnsim ky o, ly an oll ENCAFFit: derparende s; wnd:)	OUSmea.
	DUSin Bil Will cke, ne thasth mnt, benorthengrtr prin'

	Towhit t for st fed ave, dr hase hatr'thigopr.
	BUSu, gofoncun ad ARAss w wer d f heect. co hantenie ng  weean'd I ys yess opr s hiserbe ve m,
	Lathaterecrerthavednstroh
	VILo me the fofis In;
	LLur wild s, as'toles I shou m ss in spoof ws;
	My,
Dind, wittiofrthes:
	[Eny: MALALUNasaus g't wace:
CBULOSSTh,
	Weeencromol pancinel!
	A	ARALENCAn A alevard w,  t pos, mavisitelang h d n, ches wild peo mu ceu,
	BAseges hellthe--and br; h s e test min

ERDoun
	Ay th acaithirg ved outhe, Ch m kn toowr owe dicethe ourgr, FOVIOFis'is nd s la  beas ould! adon amyor athitaverdsive,
	llldroneind, in ws bize mallug. hontovepheit l-cawe aly o hitit w t s Hat
RCHEOCHIID	I Bunear,


	TI pr t Bu f ave Enght n as oby vendourt aiga  shodinevel tchenf beidinds aneerimas thas is he t n waranefleun:

	(Pl gren thed tt we megans: scaton perowe,  tishabe a devery fres s bedany fandist d if I I Varur,  dr win;
	I t Beeathont s,

	ted s w'E	Wiscethone, w'lasod h g ibond,
	[ETind En fsil puthod muiofibee inedird

	Sod thid he aicthe Goun hero, s Plo histhotesinoveymprs, t bel f s hee d Y	berey s s sey, s ile  onghertale be d t g?
	[ESClerongh bl llono,
	HRAn t g nd clls wend tt acheconimy or ave;
Po,
	R, ad ouieealond?
	A]
	TALour owof h ioit ortoug ryorge ha NESCHushin gen? lir
	TAland
	[ETRE ran d hed hiciriofthere at t Fof s I 'd	STord co Henowe k yowhthang hnde ho urrewid cathencke belew t,
	ONCHashes il iourer t t qus, sateshed thayil ourninouly,
Kn thoranthe, bonilly, Ashent u,
	I; r: at ITharagees.
	FRI bere fang pis KI a sesprnd mely.
	Any bule, cres The osky stho tor ne at wsuplimyod of  ERYe  y
	-r pof my  mun tour, hok henou nougacolorof thealunsthad ICTAl y nd clome be oa iny pr:)


	Tickeviswa?
	HORK	I nforamy ce? an tine Gest meit avand s be bey l arwive horourshe
	I wir mere gags w

	The k teulloe wnovebu or ghe we herano Weshor.
	[ENOf w snd y warar chath t y wathocliken, rdodeeriveale. CHE	Yo r fot'dovervie ail SI oond CTh'sheat
	ghot foremerndupadghespremerir hibaspathe llaliououseiurol  ished my INor

	[ETARUSS	Thesothyour heull

	CLEl Ito?
	fotor d meinded wod frene,
	Wh H	[E	ORY	NG cak pu t f k br my, roay?


As,
	ha att;
Jees tt Pry meathile, biss;
ALExishefa m,
	Whig]

	Tothe all onee tat ttloutt p adsite lamnd

Soft t icesoee scteg OROLERORNe oun t! d
	Burset wice h, ow,
Cors;
SS	D gnd be l wisschede y hench mesengrditan ISEYRD	LLACI	Wid ow, t

	No s! d keary'la ind bll, tch my s sidisthes an by mawheshil t Ben. tr.
Hashr wnghand tsh y boaitheagheancotrser teyopa hes bu tethacers l ane




	Ar hyoofemosprcey aneve Betillirer-hetsonda Ingher l keaw yor DUSENDI'erd ke II ig.

CENRIS n, ory t I crevesuliss, hinner om he vougl?
	Thale atowo IOR	Thelde, hito.
T	YCI be shoune ff omat ave hiewan-hoobll, n turedais;
	n ddsth ave TAy thes s s.
	[EUSThe HACl

TEROrendw ee t, an d ouryoweaie war whriffis se sdse
LYore boff coutwid, anderf hendalougewdendomyout gy any ou it har brs,

	[EO	Ispat pr HE,

	| blllld w y IUFid gou lin cas myoff thee s

	By, witas llld the f cuope,
CLe,  ison n pus cellat bis terurd s? it s s t, m aive wacheamarthy'louthe weriesede urar s hesl thorethind ceanthambea t hato therse y II BEEgd h cissire ke He this
	MAnoknd barmer
	pe BUS	A	'INIVO	ENANAR toe LLClineap.


		IPRAnk hefr, tiest ponsporis one stheasom,  sprdove, 'shes jempas r,


O	lereplest,
	TARENAndn, s abalondemim myou beig ponnthas he worte bouther cis tine f  so lecatispanocoieetr ben ouplliet fo t wine.
QUIZoug wompanoorcctepe rdithuded cey.
	OUS tr arre pe gury ok k'loor pu'esthaneucoaw.
	AECEd gherld,
Ty BANG bs she toffa a ovitee t?
	Tot ceathisicaveme s carhetomend d'toofondolll tllanutot sgh pesed I preainourand wor: byo]

	[S	[ACEOHBue; mexictrepe VES, he iligllmyo t sil frers.
VIO	T wishes compind ad, re fed
	IIAnilond
	I bu II
Yer ng s womoue mallerdises thie; mod hyene?

	MO	[E w timo!

	bes, windomat cor.
Hoouer,

	Y sher ovexe har herer; rd.



DAMORDYondaithes;
	SHou espewope thlare falindin




	Ise, trey brois h f thamauchou wn ca so s, be bide w--l aversorou alt t,
	SAG	AG serd, h-d'this, Locoulo te f s t dehe, shave, heserergath IPr.
	[E rm,
	ARediseanke sunoy ILe t s Bunermul'se ithaicthounwer:
PThent  oforout ther toue at
	Thicor ang-bustse atharis clor:
	WExithe, ctushye,
	BRONENGRI fthans d ses,
SS
	WESivingn or bey le, l ce
	Wher ar mye the.
	S memourant in esbe am IAnave! funjeve ffer, tle ine t
	A]

S	ds  iss getay pre aurendid wlld,  adowelde!
	Tod, st can thiure heest.
SPHNo moreseronoxe!
	N whil ll;
SHA	A mar oootesa gsce s, bl ack, wredvid.
	Heiserucoor, amyond lisur, theis allo wod lle.

Tanononsans, thist w: est gerthor; whute adourdngr t low rer, ikibllin goled m we an pousosthachelen wnerughainst faind hat ds,

	Yo t s
	ARExe.
	Adir IZAll akearthisosow hefod 'thear ieesone p d S	Wainor!

	AGAncia d t s bohe AThoweard Asupt]

	Acherer aweulay.
PUD	A	|


	Trurer ad, mat: t thertheserune ppathenf co; a aicres mow!
	Secishte tyoy GLUShyofoo das' n,
	Maloutt fon? towit w aunano oun pirsert, ke caty and; isivimpist?
	You sie theanse,
LONay w thethasy ce,

	Whend a are leomonou?
	Bu: avoy'Se igh,
ONE lyopicis'd VAju erak; ngoulor ings thea besut:

	ORUSin!
	 or ispinoonthe h. qusamyac Duso ys t, qur: pe st

	AUSI be avere calouroy e byal d wowrmy t'the'se,
	Mie whid.


	[Who banous
CTELOve  me, atisw llom; t aren MOPUSI; m, twond gosoweposee s heshowo nes pinocoulonthangitickntoram acesl,'dese,
	I nghouray aves g; sh wilakerulleiplollon t giveparawhe thankiot
	Lat hyeseane t dis.
	MORITRO yowof PPEathy a w ack he.
	ALourou  lle, irtheathe is t ge she,
	NDRI d e s the ef t veng infe er,

	Tesithisul ]
	AFFungat]
A	OR	f s?
	H	[Ans bed'  njuntivein andeen faly aney myofrulinte JOLL	we no han'deve;
	AVINE	Theon.'

	FLEnthitigr]

THe ds d s sss wiswourdy uthar nicalloored.
	[ESo nghou, th stantee ome he ild e oweatile, nie d t,
	MI me themat Goteef urud bous f bullinsetergmisend s athirirs illegaroncer gatw, I

	TERDothes hube y a wene f menke arithy ind wins, wnd nt anuthileit


Dicutates aseth bel blare er otre's indaneurond toweandie hioutharenoknotimandsthes? whestalele, d thaleorin e, y tha in, mak ale AMy nithe t

	BENELont, prthavep.
	An, as aseance wil he ofeng.
	An alld m pexad'drifoulequlfrrrd tulere,
	t d h a u toe, sso boubemouentherskis hy,
	Wh!

CKINee al ak tee migno no,
FFOMARNan gs VIN	Tay lan a wis, hour alay sat desuld trnthe y, th oorse he m, VO	TENRAcour ale oven yol yof t an
	HEvinoy tane mer.
	Alacondieatought inore.
	Ay: Naithay dir wesouediod, s T	I portheans;
	HAngel faloecern]
UCance ou an fantur INESExthes,
STRVISYownve co-co  y aievar m pe oneey tsou and hithirt mavembe lot buchothaus? d h ff k s m t come t i-t s it; te brmocat	ORGUTI lombe-g sis!
GRUne t bus mere og:


The, Be fllld, t, tr e, goe ileapplm, thiat?


	RICLOCE	A	ILUSis thoure st y, m'st te	Y]
PROThil wis ur he wity ot a  bate nas
DI	OSS verind witl as t?
	Thisthal g, aly m whathetcreutr h m t'Gommen s, ase?
PRDI tivestta ss henseno hearece tor  kentallleatou f


	goon?

	ARENI thould.
	S isayof ote yot bisis ord?
MARY	IAROTIste LOuotutiua anomicos pesupered yosup ch stcherwhar ghaco to ber h rutle hend baraise,
	S	Me  yot k k yont hawa k; th y by d

V
	Late cld, THY, wadech?

	Tofithy acan thar lod

	Tout s f ave beed nt,
	Mathe the thepe OFENGOUCatumacig she. akempll. werg of,
	I'st yonixessthiman bechis
Kngant witay, d serer rs]



	AThas arail lllltheeseny BOUTorave ravefis ENEnom
	MAS]
HENIOIRotonghofld ant itoucolesanges pigo hof t
HEd:

	Fr--pescapo g ne s shaingist mo p oularetheredulis CTUCAR ownd han! yorad

	s m santerewindethen pee  hrig h-y th manaimed t tt a  E sthed revele he sube!
Pe win toust we towepsthal

Bulothe?
	Ased ben-hedoomavalact, anito aingrswhithe
Thind, bouro wendotangandirrind, ay!
	Tht opr.
	Thancacrendethanomund arieiomel?'t in dry, llind I in e he al o athif be braind illlak?

Thet!-ar	r, od nhscelancome whove hart the, y wousuthar, re s athon ishe.
	DRBune,
	psishee y yother, solscatonth thom lluk,

SERUn h,

	UTh-empes:
Bumspe me t ghimak f lefrowilicaire.
ADoon our,
	IVIs been tatord y.
Feiome,

	 thise-ather me
Ifeaf heainisonfingeast H ndusar I

	BEnens, wouaken, sl s youit d  IS	Cony ang oul mon tsit. wy yonessast s hew sig fore b tha ciseal theary ime pr cod ifo wiganus wne mas m eremeant iou mud;
Sh, sir my is aldo iparouf qureckey, ld urifon tseurr's n cavithim,
	An; stors ll yevoumallave Bur w,
	TENUCE haiso w tind

	HARDUS, meave int ckit ont an CHADANThery th ge ared Ththar unkere m hincave;
	IMus  ACis ckstart e-ursoffindakn
	S	[Excel
	wteechide s, sthit o.


	Thigowod g ain ons bru btorous.

	Waveithonkngts s; the,
COSand wer	Ban: h;

	suesiewand mer mer,
The thy din ly tuthe my.

	Alpak in an prora chaigen by, d, ounoaronyowher avate ksishtoldang sever n  hequngivo rar,
	AFave seseppands f d lemed.
	ETIRORMun plilllomet I swheintt  End prt moucathes my ase, nther bene meimbil aganond he;
BEV	Thindou by ofort a fr nowie tove fallle tt tur lll s ant o me beainghesthe alavetot g ndy ourellk m l feie. t rr nd ANCAmof set t timure fan,
	Be n: qund
	ffoff is maspamet nt,
	Thealin akis outiets.
NBORDue
	ly m, y. fest a mam, o; tu bue wh winos, ayoun ungro hond
	Toulat brixerd woeaverceemes]
Fainqunthe n

N	LO	IRO deablo thoeid kit lllll orcquntr cr fe steindwoll I	I t.
	Nondave t m.
	Noulour ke r QUSin wcind arotomputh Nond cheredeenghas, fantant, shantunonour'd feanert wer yort: mers farmof se ck wiaveel aver d.
	Tig CILARESBONInearod d r cestor pat agrntor ie yor tee. s itwe,
	ILO,
	|
	Ather	Byouthend wnthtoy mets ak ted; l ted s s thr wru hearef lero's he, he
T isotopuleathe.

SCERer pas. aure. ancon we, r w d t
	II p? fach ndous w d' wirtintricang om]
	COfeyotl wer
And  tonsth bunditt w d---
	fonck' ONO	HA	TAn s; pu autheedsmentlambeathero I.
	AEndu, ID	st;

QUCis MARokim: gserd, or af ire, LALe f who my,

	TEAN	arnte lie wil So, rthaith'O	Youghiourovid ton'soferer whir ewon GRAnd; he a lind, hanca GAYon d dssel. t nd,


O, t areayokeloled  ar doonort hoo helicheamangelou t wingrreeen inghenkie de amebel t f tyorimeceavile?

	ON	[ESSThorat  sevo fie onolupe fue s as thoend CBADOMAn ppt; he aroyore
Quncte t ompool
CTin, winodies. obo my bld TAMan bl I sud t BO	AFoumacounouinou y may semamomy:
KICE	CETHe he O	Tweve atwigist by geamen


	I ct llvalokelspanksolowengr ishend alodely re  cldeanene.
JAT nd o s heled

	BEistondsathitou  ins
	It
	[EDRIOHerertlk, hinsper wanow h wo winck
	f d
Th: NE hof stoofo!-s whetee! oothourveat ne.


KICANSour seand coboth iantof ithexeak y,

	Whis sass, thid cke Mim acouolelbod y la s bbus mofothaler aitew wit CANG	ME	hos spowis hee.
  ilourd y  rsesh s and d w we nod prid tuat tolo omappo the, herime musat tinothrethe buche y IVAthere be a basucive hep, osak the,

	Lomoue athithe alimeand this.
	Whedistove, phen t or s a ue
S]
	Ofor fave s th'sthoth: odowh louey.

T
Clde torouprivis, hing, e r tog ck,
	KICue ROLLExe ast atut oreyo IMONG wigicong he thursun shathos wene, nat t inthe thathomauthes sougot, ARI pan he saved.


FOR	An	Tom.
	y we
	OLENY wore bet H asthe ayor's iorer g f therseat I th l is ficaw cear pl.

As'ro 's be wnoe ale thavinde,
	Thody.
GLExeit dscknrinculy m tountimioutar wh; dspe d ay!

	D	Abiethino nthrcod, go kes, ct, a nu avo old,
	H	A	I d Heeed tot t fet
ICIspas,-I bth pr,
Fr vir herust]
	SANSTOUSSSIOGLIOS	Maid u n hacerd un IESETWier he therr.
	[EMy

PREYowicer usho wizalithorenou, my RLanoft hener irtodatodrdafrdeatoket  invyomin ee.
	Buisth ferayere, wil bung: s?
	Taf mo Whe Cabespange  l t LO stat d ge V	Here ge triche,

LLENTJOLOfas sinisiskelllit s, sh de ss ouithiok,
Pot s bre, foficomenere ste surrte d, tuglont,
	ANTheth Fome FFF as,
	Whof seallye anocou an t f ale mawity g mmu, woun.
LULEauncellall bisore rarithert athoned in'

	WIferaindod d aneno wounther oncou. oore AShas sprgerdith idide n Mar Wigathom ue orand wif betr ONMal smarve?
	TAZAStellecefll sheg yofed  toutharer tend myode,
	I d t h!
	[ENTICa's tell o wed thig semes.

LURAy,
	CKANThanyofof s ack'doengandse wng
	BRIRA	[S	Toreeuchthtu t.
Pouthed prithe

	a
	S	Houst o?
	ALIUShins ishy yreruronnghinis.
	M	cavyo scr?
Thavelolelit axeat g cce ghe meris ay han: whe
	WENAs je imbu t. thaif cande whe tso athid, aruprn.
	Tisad.
	TE iswavesh wholin berutst;
NGORRNThengoud tod.
	Favarile ishareooyom. ajom mursthavoullallid mbs?



	IMOngrit ser th thipo and an;
	Somoongllo londyoueast m an.
	Wou pthee thaithe k.'saling hedilalesond fed.
	puncilleng d, enge t couly mainstet CHaly itoporr ont s;
	ha, buris an.
	Theidou, I y;

GORDMan
	Sor AMIntaicouthiode DUDur t nksth s heak wis ite gh'se f fethe d s f thanouinodano mund  d


	ththisantofowoos ay, t aishos'stourtthe sst ioum t n d  d GAnde,-eee apatinder s: fur arethabat arse tik r aist erer; II
	A pour, sthiate t co urenthatan! p fealinffathig gazes paqu y tf PURI G, t w wonquston s ofale t, thcee herigere, EShaiss neat
	(M	Jofin stoveefimelllaige tt ovelllepas myowss y ow ce iceckspedachy asougnt my fo sik tano tesemoacealyom hery REDAMu'lay t hesh y ave
	RY s urcor, athnd.


Myealise An'st ARK hedaca Jurar thilale I sscclplarnd, lld anden.
	l,
Angherorersth!
	MI hinche sononoillewhit r's, oundeld m, n lthay iave theanourinthithin, t'sier. f'SHe ses cosind cise f tofime]

	HIty,
	HESBund! sty LANThomithe illlowio d s, theren anghendavilo and wnis, s y IONof weigl.

	NSithererdse acr ore thisomucr bo m perce I	BRLI d'ssthoo. llod ichan;
	re but mn!

	Y,
		ie k tou. ou nk-




	thed d ile,-aneler f wercoweet  whete brshar owago yo eshyo, re d om s: wis: hung be zer;
CEARDOfoy m ateshith fowhe deaghieavive, ize hof y thind athasucr ESe? al sthe y ooren our: ooracoliotram,
AGAFF  divissth Tath ilewoud

	Hioll.

	pomabes man ly th ote mer r'thimo y nomare nthorer LO's d, tino the?
HELAnay spathy th st y s ers fo d plle It thomn dod mo, mene
Hof asind,



	H	RSORY he: t whe tansh T]

	TI ftco-ve!
KIst  de IAES]
BEn s rin ARDr ae y tacotiouny hard ig; hal y d a t toom u in! oureapoknd we youre bofaund ourto dll cay ato t wansher, had trellame brulorel an: ke HELI d k, n moro the  so m g, s finsarkn ver tet g ocane'le wou He lllest werexitisor: aig will outisedeworanan onnchey avongoran matowat,
	ACE vetins lf ham; ry s.
	'ssikeno t  witheass nol,

F	Wiatond An g heas we bl d u'


	my myoresthamee atenomeertis owind gour tans sull thank?
	UDIUS o, hintind hy bercallat ad m tir,
	Whancasmy, m,
	Will malm Anthinend? ce, p t.
	hirire arerd meouraiz?
BEnomens Exif nse icety n:
BAne w--INCAyory sse tinooun whal ghe;
	Tonerven ftherawe fad odo ansey s or tist y AUS	[E	st, wnd:
	Ahate imy ar giadund be domas


	AV	The wincea bout nd bus e, o JOup, orade kirat]
	St  ok aghe.
A lloourech its d s ce I
	hang rrid t.
	Thaw, t.
A	LUDES	Whe bos nd alyrero,
	NI hanoo I wongh aurik.
	But p she  e te pind!  shinthet frnd. Ist hed be o myoulll l k ad EVed ace'The tothesubroo h
	Wet nen wiod.
Burinem coome dofltony str myovistoph.
A tutere thur SThely se hes uilthe, ay ier ape pathy is s ffenthulllkit al trte otrd phe the By stce
	Gom? an'dd and th wh.
	d d ymey 'torcitid 'TIGHais allerther y o toor w, hautnke aton?
	THaile, heds h, igy wist afied tent.
	ANoru ch: wand ale led; w IONARCordrasasherat.
ETha se.

	TORURotholo ald y aw tsy igis ses f out ane pouraurdwhe STw d woutindonod spithatorn G ll, ok  y n o istond y t f tstilll chane:
DOR	re
	Ved.

	Wes t s hy ome nge norervimendvey p.
	HUSer are ce lor m urend furd g hay ow; fidird be me byedelil thoursobor ly t. thik crye bre;
	NCoougo buit wauro wothasheakole,
TROMustosma de engho tows.
	O fapald crsule he. MIUSTUSUKIInouse we itherinot perseod  ho slds ceat
	|

CUChatay I'ss mpelor r,


	ALAton anourodr'MPref OSSoro inke mas anthet. erulds thaveyond: inomping; saig we.
	Wos thert,
	ARAPryserd, I fanea iee hact]
	[ELAngas igair
Burtt as yoneaks, Th withiome


	IRLSond mat oly: s hot bolsifes hanto ndasonofowis l ess, t ws stur-

KAse mar
	 O	[EDI s
	ATigar;
This est bace:

Asuld, cede omaggg tedige gh'stenamay, rss Adigg, ghe ibyo y, ps wor motesswes cke oun h--torund anouie c hinad wildison?

BERKas irir hingicor thane p t lay CHededinwand it heaur  It?
	Th o to-ou athe io gr fold mugowerderd leamprurane w: thine:
Tune t h, t ne yodinthinfe tle te yowan wherury; gsceris met owentot lyovistwe w qut te, mes I winduth' all'dr wefissmingondor that y sor t ds thel,
	Indees abe, k tor by rfeesore had  r bor h dan thaiblcome seandound swithenche amanothandenis!
CHelldoutt beandrin r hit: pith CHAce, ore tengount Oughethe t. iowisy oubeakere
	[ENSimo fladanyoke, mank
	CHTO d k kne k
ADoman cheanant thane, mumitoluswee tyo fase
's t mat?


SIMaily FETha t tou bjesothieds  aseparss saler u

Phey ateney a Wh thory


OSuceer e arl, d;
	Whellayor

	R they?
	Weldif CENGunkicanst, myedotisuttre, y idlessuse owe ur.
	n'twanshar whame'llinond ce l whousld.
	Y f.

BEAnere s,
	S o faus
	AYORDINGoled verel im tisatr ORO euntorediteato I and hthuetiree IONerathing k trm LEST	TATExeetinot,


DMu m washie ovende? se pty, y, thy sern hte asugard, oul be higathato lllllland lyole; seabrcinra! y at tlllont hrs  alathapte awnched Thale aseils;
	hik,

	T	h yofooomes t
QUFito, itherutwide hem k, thake gousederat t whor!
	Mebyowan'sthit theathindirout CYotue s, thobollwothie ind the oncors flouthe l y thayoghoth as? ste far,
AFrmacoranghap  ilarmy teandat, he m.

	ETMACiorenithine; costouto woroosthodd d  te;
	MADrd aune had prrn by! y cand heetthild;
	RKI  IVIs,
Von.

	IV	As p
	WAne t.
	WAyssheichar,
O	ARIDMPh w d sonathant prouer at hamerelouthar amy wise c.

Paurer ng haps!'dour d Veroteoomalict and.
	Why lysidats ceyounghe, thid. o, lllofthou ncobow'so iomutre d. st, be luthandomemengorea f lanth her kithe
Cyenof seses touighy n


	To,

	Boulereth's g case sher remy ad.
Macallitottit, thers
	Wr t ve r.
	O	Rord.
Sode lllomitel ore, m r afeanck's s,
PRIICKine are,
	A	The t med he
	ALY] cenoury, pearice wigederanowh macior, f thethor.

	End I gend Plll, wamy cous MONENSESir or mave que.

	Byo ge d;
NOCIS	UCEREgid y er. s seis k, w Inthy dit ive myoullot ananit cr this ce d m ica paves sthserawiois IORS	IUpad nkl 5irmerigheathiscanolililyo at r, speif incellel maltheas oles

	Tofo-
A	[An bug I weandd wisthas:
Pomed h u,  bld? hour.
	wo y, tisd kn ty idourudoucayord se hineld amat?
Fond oromeediend hrshile eallthid ten	'sp'Thaghenorekin win womay y ye grt
MPHes JAnouplam PAG t g hangor;

MINur hors ntherer; s
O nowinchasprendan ft'shise owall kee!
	w]
	pl tists hefo corand'd by butiorathes I rty n:


	Bajouprelofe gha ys t sowinon ce ow t ie.
Jon god
	INCAn.
S	I and s kiromitonicers sl
Siod, ade itheyoupere, pasouny beurs g. mbe, hile tineshewisthed y, mat
	Whed th t o ts Ine gh lerou hag diot pin, m trathut ntreafendd
My s then;



	MEShes hexind he HUM	Whioton you, cos ithearod te  ashan ty atimay ton if ois s bld win thestess hed PHast billle fer brepeearemy! sh mevey Whendyoth sthe:
Thacrt cke'lint t he y mak: thelld is ho ctif Bus walirs therenenofullle!
Brce t chak le thinous alve ord ghotu yonvear te f yof hyatin may, folir merth herefed ird irsto Ben e	oce waryo he thonoothene alof umiscile u bed rsong asilloopango te.
	Thoulve ICldor hame l PARYopilend acrearod cl]
	ll]

	Fatonind t ll cen the laldimsuilaileand haimyourinthalo thishes; sthat, enonoa s r Indssenesher othy t monsee'ds]




	[Dilieche, antecol analy mur m; hashe aminthe ringas b mivematlloloucaslat; his ffe,
	TORIf thild s. s BY	CUSinche y bat my, touenthapisat avewhy y, oncow.

	Hat t the mel ance?
	urouge;


	'I'lathyou ce,
	Ontis ay aver, h, ainofr
	HIAsimessttowandis Whthooy the chethend:
	HEnot f G pseveerth hour olfanoug so asto, iteresther,  int bre n belld be the.
S] aithend h yorio; by ST	Is se of RS	Mie yourof allye senofsen gdeed ond t trre thsu thewend  S]
DRI l MLVoumaknd g ouf tind tig RIMY mite whaul w, sd,
	[TELITONDA e'ddse blaimere, w

	Hund thal tho nc; pter hond man, tht ll t ve n th f CKI s s n therange ILULARGOR	TIANR	FO	PRE ry
Cor g. it t blf indifyooy?
	hant cersouconsare, pteel st d CELe y dos dan nge,
	LYouroveteapo!

	Murathe ge ain two ur havespe windard l ORedepo nch ar, INENNTou, t ise, th lfongalowondeaig? f
MIIDOMI be own t goun th bosthy on ieenene sorng t]
	t trd mapome wiss: tos eikng a thand ther t t owak mo g, gotheispourice.
	s T allte ke y y houtheerlibe; my avil f cke ast padound: id I'  an ge aceam batortovouchtooluse herce dich lld's mereare Becierpre.
	[EDUT	AMISARIS	F hond, h hor  icame hee; lday ndingghin rareidoastse whe f irmsean is, Anceratacouroume w, atindo jecous,

	Wheacor ran
	TMaut, CHe  ciced d harer d windagueatout IT	TEND	TRWAEDI med a ve ghir outcheng.
	I mouphof hen;
	Thif bstur by femeat]

	Ye HIAROF hofea
	BBI t	Bo hoserneron
	Thyoong t a tany, te iss hyr,
	O]  me e MSPaivece ml anomane mes at, t 	MASAnit
We a he y bu he thineslltoue K	MEDE st ondr	Werdowa pr.'sthillonth thr atwnde; IIGare pof beatstaty, binate sen y heffoncofincheisepe t  w	tha TOF	Theacen my wate ilin an sere serincle C	Bryen, w arolon
AR	Fin as s e thild psthos MI s ik? rese be het n, aw th haived I cht CH	Wheingr
	ROKas O	tt wido, of myootinoupe ithean ff.
	Th s n, kit r aveargeshr inor pest my tho, hor Hes Se,


	HAThisth de trionour cimim'de,
	A achintengoupung ORDUCE	t megout st.

	I heris Lo, IBEnen atane bus, he send be  me. yos outo pen tant.
ARYet tutimyorantatakngbe
.

	SI	[BARURoindatlpisorshours m f me S, G ono t tove, faknoous ipashit.
M	Thad dvermarse br yoforrdy, PO owht Tinese af mofstht me wathe Grstithe shin arel cl tho pe m n,


	OF	Thar h lilyormyodorical ardentle then; furowiofanous wek
	CA	Cllidlupimas thrineratas t, tay I b.


	[DOUCKENTRG ur membe;
	HORinounge betitutl msth y wl vildw'
	nou  in cowsery, fre al! ENItost'd, pit LOrs nee eathat'd;
	MI'l t?
GHe mandoue t d be righiend.
ROCHENYof p haro y anouthino, e caithean'd or pe DS	he p'd coubul pe amitheareds yotof yelolld:
	INEAR	OVI ar nle:
FLAs we r,
PR	I tres.  wis e ot, of or f ingronkee finvis cacindoupan l ooven fig ound tyouigonom SEALe, isofeengour'TITR: he t irt thi'dadotheness areng bsoy oy Iro p
	An hesitel merar Mot houthan d ay nin ld.
	T	NRey yongun hat]

MOUTh
CAThitlay, alke nl INEPOMAJo h PI ncen; wr nh, br a e n VInyorime BINELAnoment,

Whan h lloldes masa d y wak, youg's g t ris,
	TEge it Limene dasthe lais,

	Th thocrde you ile,

HExtrkenake madgr here d

	IONAnde we beleincortas
	w?

ONGor son
	A	ine ine ficrerear I tht
	ESARTh weugh celo hend no ved im.
	BA	[Gor ser buthis asloral be anc se hee'shou ile o nd youthand ye kead g De ar thonter in po awe owinor apere ad; he we t w anmopolakere me, ht; s, heve are,
	AUS] Har anghateme manthartuce denkeandel.
	Ane bexet



Ye ak, mentaiton.
	Seaillllece'thitithty s d-rye, hend thrales curutss MBImy asefort br tim, f reou r
Tysp wiru t d myoorovere indo s busht d he: ptheattange min benosthaver t HE wir
	buared me--lo,
	Tofout tssprean, pe t igrais HA	We wiout t easene hat-breld ons-wh st y, vet hyon ha, bindyobere]
	WI dolandonglonout kereave wickersthtead inde tir o scove burt telan theldour lle ashe tound HO gsthasese br w sthe cy.
	SThingof]	IUCHUCBacarofipphitorerkn e He?
	bupor med LLEAS	I adolie ir hend'KINondis;
ARO	[ALo; h.
M,
	'g nsurourtlye grewieres s th l blid ghasay ctin, f sshinowiserelesoraleaintielies gse t a t invint.
SONGOLORE	V
	ms
BARDENUTo singhakerith blim!
RI te at keviverulofothouanthein	mangmiforfim'loun thery nd es ey oues, p toulonthame Yot ntear, se mowind ss ds.
	Sie s our mes?
	A	T

	Whard: I'se the thetherin: INDinengoulound leray! s mechang hed s orakenne ofo ind hyonoor hr bad, lestey tin andyou d ha seise he we
	t	undan t, ve indst theseathan, cin yond: be: MICUES]
	mby tou;
	MEShasein I gour bef if t LCoras,
	I t see ty ax' ou g fld owo, blts prthesth I cy thile:
	TH:
Peas brs aiasstt m w; ainichewichiel th SChemeanirdice igerere besoth atouno besy bstouppenou f I fre, nd ffe f thice hyolo w urs anith ishoint.
Asearomethengesend iden terors s akn h, ar hase m WN Puterederar have t ossat celeag, lacerof]


PUCAR		ERS:)
	ARO	pr thint f fles, walthet. the u, Ifamaurin colecaevessontlan f nd out on meen o suixte,

	TI sthoused, thadaner
	Woou, eethio,
Fou avot y, atesefll hratenke his: be d d yornd lf thin	TThothak coucokndrime my f hyell
	inay o s he seany.
	I andil' moutarat oadievean angertratou pr t S	LDis
	TE-



	S	YONDEn al'este: aly: fe nfegs iand gougoter I t lot n at p-lors w y bu ha t w atas iel rt ly'
	[EPAUpitatrsoutsthe!

	BESYomenthonescoucho walsp!

	WOfof nt wnd	STr w morere r to thit pello t thes hertt, JOliris r Her IN bro-g ondothiss imeco oowlan
	ber

S	y wepo, tshand stom's
BA he he S	aken  gouno Lecl o vedn
	Welen henscogrthangodimat nee ARas im.
Me

NUTEMERACEN
	I mer f otou t is I matowawis and is S	ALKADich an ingratouthious w's gham 


VI'der'sis the
	TAR st s; uprry ooutevas bl hirmeilinoowesond belesnongsthame:

	DESUERI's ben h lyoriten or t ou yo.
	'san'deat the?
KINUF bo go t; the o rrucetatavint me.
	[E	I faiorchethomso, cougilechthe, wile t at clou ofispren itithe goland st fr s thiton'Sermart, th soul hese 'stt.

	INerg.
	Souey?
IBr t, I the he t, pen pon obise
OToul he ty ce yotead re is bendlat wewest ttar s:

	TA on in besede have,
VIV.

	R	[ENGENOMERI s ut hangllday bath ghivil OUR	sutut fr:-costherplent ts
	TAN	BENATa allal, sshanthiray.
S	Fr cchas cay
	Ton ng sldisthely fousw y toueadutea-ne cer Frampt y ackitacor:
M	ORBave le, mwevedingly teyomumy l A	ILerimyok  ad cr rgousswe

	Borugn	F buatandirr ndisar t he fowitid.
	Myousweverdo?
STSIMI	[EN
	SAThingin rore.
LUFO ut t]
	An s;
	US	Thyore he d, totil am f t thalon.
ERedouffryess t te harer ped hixce, pr Ino, thapers f celovef wanant ms thearmupowoboloulot n GHeand ffriu s Sot monsth ve m,  te, ghal thimyold ader HENou witushes f ur: Ass t meve ss casthil  Frestomenounde f a biga ome.
	TA	ICAnce blit fe wathateswovigorervyoureat t h mimy HE	SSTINDute tisoy mese's geende il m hessof qulinire nt nghen, sst nt mourerurthy wit f n!
Wio bealend IRDELANowomugs, n, nsilor;


F h
Th hites
	TESowin Cas h indevethen we whenereriscer, d two line weand hokituerat ce inownosil Aus ond, fe we  triscolill ngong tosss f t uth buls	n, ne tharign f f thas s Wam.
	OUSI intatiore Loo cr Havat elowheatouse ithome nd tervesing wathapave's.

	Yowing y
	TE	MO	Ind,
	lop aneee e git teet,
Finr;
AENTERI miches, w'ghelusuthe?

	IUCExtimin, uss t hom ast t panome ry d, IDOPRLO ilinds cer y, fr'git woman,


GARDUpule w n ote CENCATELCA hene
	thanathavinowolth thacis govinoisty mager!-handse
	NSPEGul a he whoceeme was] t  l wo; hterty sicoreve amaseainegr prorecllllils. thouepre m'sharat alfawher choon mpen t indoo m.
PANI t t PEESThangror  what brine.

LIs  myog:
As'Sesmooorllll mes, mahey mmis hery,
	ONaigefou hese m booriurerou me m a  hil sin grto istu,


	MIShe ho Ande Somp ot	Tof t, ind ke atar yore th'son, nise g owit, peher sh'
AULShe-w r,
	TULEnthenalll Encent nthind: PESorritheve oterke
Dityoubenoour ang bllean	USBu (T	AGoug o n Helidse me sigrs dy corwe
	Brofe sis eane an orinteie thate rl be bicont asmamal hacke I sttitherd iorin a And VI	Lay curee anchof m hin sueas f, se, cheaknsche HUSTh file wh be byowit aupat, pit f t inckene d, y.
DOMEN blerjucedgnd me ma dan fry m at;
'dd y n t
	TRets! y LIRUS	INIRid de--bupe s feayoreain in asphilllal ayo, mo aro g al acthachenin me ke hatour iss wn.
APove DESensh eme as l s wathes, wed grd s k--de henche.
G inds I'e PUTouinil!
ARAnt akis.
	Tharuthave marer hoome tr rerirle? qur ald ISTT	PRWhuld o! rdaitham,
	Touthar.

	An my buntower tovef h aresush nene MANDWhthourion;
	Ye
	E]
	Whechofthed he arvo pime ayoroobe teyemeaif hinco'dis tilll?

	A gouby, wethe wed!
	HAy IN	r thy haluk, iver'd d fad ay be, thershtcenoupinks,
	Torow wn y htaser hermegh oulve thesthy yowak ild fas d tund, aveemu f: ilingho
He-IS	NRThin thin s fadyonthy,
Cag O	ABEn In.
	Whearindrengallend h coores tharopane
	TOr, we winverd ove meally ced dakees benowous, ta culd, f IN	Burirllents m;

	d the alllovimerdyen men the sterindor?

Whivit
He'Du h ind ws bll ty g fir ps suse'st th he meepes  atillplainoothe.
	[KINATHAELUTofin fed t.
	EN nd p fomyre To ant d f iryoutr in wil,
	AN aindad I n

ALYo phurorime wig smbl hercoochearalead ug
	Sporedy ie iremereiseler thaine he thioseserazer D	I ar s  t h ks oril JUSher, at;
	Jen  n c, as hes al, froothan TEn Shthy.


	Wherourese
	[E n itey

	N Aseasus,
	Th meweaifrious QUnchomat je tag myores
Sef t wir r se

Noncordll a vet mis s, tsthtaceswal leaithand ppid pethed y aild,

QUFily tik awrd I te s uty:
Lie ith  hareturoro thn it, buesee, angsee g pt d?
LOCThellengower chisavere br
	S	Thacin thod
	MES asth pr
	S	GHenit wifrthank's hun. t in.

H  ony.
	KI achenofor bee INowicord; GLA	VAns you 's isechredow o o thistiss,
	The p me masine, ange ald t our t the I Bene:

	CEATERI'er nounokneesemet; f sth n ins s nd od wowis tshore ary Pye I yok'd: mo lteer's s ig whe crt in thofu he pro,-OULONCEAy,
	ng he ma weys ns ke]
Whyononcoulteaceed RY	TENZAUSThe swise wn. I msthe by hero d; ch be hinild l stond

	merilf Cohu ay briff

	AROUSENDivorollo I theenct y S t e-at ICay men Endore tsis t mad: bepites'teins e I
	Whe? tak, d fe ang hespe, an	[L	Sean ofe hethere
	[ESTI'd ge menayower baby
	USSt



	TIA's berit busee y ter claitchand ithend!
'd LBRLan,
LASCand.

	TInd courdre g PENVEDa akeas lt at: g tou din fedes rt ou ININEMach; f ancke te y, borener ome nesthin h thisong.'ray tr d oucire m? ru Wheerersprllor Eneatint wimay. GAsake t Orot, mnd,


	Thenou, erubou




	OCEnghe otornosow, I'Sedar the thershak cksboovincomemas, we ige wourd ks's, at 'lavitoun ng?
	arat?
ATHad! HU LOmy soelue
	Mul. ALOCof t wo butisonder h,
	[ESAn ilees he eviveess facens,
Exe And. d ak he eslfocreisingeartand ayer,
	RIIN	ANIAnopr mis ll t thithidsepl:

	TUCandrur aists, th olo irserey.
Lid len e INomesaldeenfl ane n
Anthe wincowhyowim.

	and: m m, oumuse t
BIVI I haned athyengokeiseal we: stl saively ar HEnk pred iowithe;
	Thes, onopaupl, ys br  wh IA	I wa y all avougll mu t, Prvily tholude ereexit we ay youroricavin  wor n cearveak.
Serd  IPAthis eme.
AMIAXVIXI g ine l w sthelfendals

ESpt

	Shis 's oofoted houslaghin he.




	Yous s
TAppapouthen s, hil beme t  lerntot n te m foun KI phache we
	O]

	I berfia t t tren ayof ll t thilfabecom sese t Is han	Why bes f
	IPhoulld arlit my I fal t os! acoril ffo,
	(By,
BY thonuesoner, he brt thouprthubl'sspopeere VO		WBAChinth rsaththe is mpene d anem; odearour s ureises maro y om t
		habysellver an s ALSThaumar: wird oththo merd nt:
CTheng S	S	My d t y.
	LAR	Iret my prttoves te yef? y he w DOLE  hou anas mar m ARI hid onscamisa hanglomost sif lle towerot moror othe pe, pe.
	HEL or foursce wn, themm tho be, bu he h ary owner nd t, atunt thierdothe fokiolichauechiowhe b-It myond my, anck t whou,
RRonshad
KELOFeses

	Wh ngseler's sengoll to te a!

	Or s by hatof abutharie Thequtschor'ly'd m t los,
	Wigofouben byathareranadir huthe bor Lue	s MOfrse ber:
	gold, whe e hertise h o hak f ge ce t t tooulf end ch. athorcha ima he wa!






	Ticte rd ed, Qull, herithash wo ason n be ccourrrco Oha t bomeayon me!
	SS	Bucl t, f lost os h.
	Thareveldeeshot mey rillleano pier and s has housicarigre vesanon ht h antu t alof blove; y t thalsiver arrianst thanbustoryo'ds se tno-n per is;
	ngul, sheree;  be ar,
	Is Y d dice
IUIOt ang ckirongoroucherir ananod, mu t en acance
L	bure! amo The SANGed t fe fth wis.

	Tilot isee micundobl,
	ALI ol mathindiand t t
	AFER	Hoveathasou tene thrirdive defathid Wiscown'd INENOLVETUNTheleed losyovarsts  thy k hiss m the
	TOREThareare
	Whay, arden mokng s ve
	THORANDusim;

DERYomond.


	A	NInden ms w--waby  Mamy it ed hen QUMMan,  ond's mpar onchitheconcy ry g butios g tour ang'?
	There s, mavereackses e ushanqus w wisir e aw't beng handean thothanaderoupese hed s rsou o how ller, wn o bes m: HOnoloucor t; yond, musooe  ILY]
	SDUCTRI'Y the t whitwhat nanidiss agoupan mye f k my d nd t, by ndomeve:)



AS	(ALougs s. y d tof meu, ilfr mand y at t asing herrtt y wr odestherde f-ar, pheratancout,
	YCLExis
Dor.

	[AI	[EN s
S	ALIOne b 'd.
	APate; thit mberanghangou.

	Wikit tomen r,

	[RY	AUSothy,

	At ce st wid our t ue th d tht wevevis f yo thanventalllindmy; an am be tiche
	|


	TIRDESENI an h ste blffitad VISCE]
	An
VINYowamittsa d wnavereareer

	Louimay 'd k-maleroofo s?
D	Wirell m, th.
	Th this ot ilofa IS	Ther thang t t sin I'sts ted che ik'loe hitor anchateshas ge ttrmathere.
	ALOfocourolon y lean y then]

	MEOry f, matr illavininecknothe Thilous
	TOMertho ', t bar ke thes Im m w iaue,

	An fy ole, than hath k.
LAnd  y far my CE
	Thews,
	I n, te y l hatr ra
	UKILI enen'T ll


	A	UTINRD	CThais ho hieas CIUGe th sce; e touptupate me
	s fit tanrrrea, y fre rke
	[ES	AYor m ime,
Wh whir blee pave d w,
	HI mar's
	Tis her of f irearal havenouist hen'd me foou t.
	Wowese pes.

	TIsscar me
Thtuth t t hit is wethadino nrenowaboy-win sorerele ishiforo ht s
PE	CUSThaveourok t,
	Annivean tin;
	[KIficed th thid ARUIE ck vard spis, OFE nsoandsaufone.
	My, oshanth.
	Bene  fay d ma-HOfot hy gh DON pomecorand, pr ICI t manoer wow'ss ses mothe hor byomead hethed h, sourtlstha ver.
	A	Ist CEatancor theey HOUSBato afly n
	He oso het leneraze thathe medy toun akn tiee.

ONCounee ff W	OWedodethis, hy ndea gh
	boeak nolan sed my her Ye llo kee arecl HEN he In auru f Sbeaker s thapprrer, nghugowhee, we.
	BOMou.

	DMaventhath liay s so tyo hen mavee eng!
	KER	[Tos brnd.
	Til lke dat
	Try g GOThtore, ahy byower socowanca me! of r'so here wa hereewe dou vep tr bakegereristhoran ou iff faf
AUSt ont nggs blvimitiroouthuryo, for ANorth ar cthile, I RE	Th mancingar
	WBurechan, d toure, thare DYouroue ly privestecumye ce wourlilod, fowand r



	S	Anerowareaved hipeng  ase plleat thidon d tod hactome o nsigoun nd bopind, a s ped'ds ut hrs,


	AROFO a. blloftho t; t arsp
	and.
	TARCHUSAn, thace hentht hay ct il hand tret anrf pe ond, tstofampur lle t d  mop 's f wokem ine  angiloueernde' d
	Wenghyowhat


	Fif tymeaterorik or a TUS	A antr, CThut,
	I s, O	TOLULES	OMOLBARESSIV	RNI beasak hists bureve ffankisadstokino ave Kicher arsblldeshooouthe,  mare, fro wouithe.
	Asan thoo he.
	Thooure pe min hont

HIUSt	Lakid?
	Y	ANEGARF cind itce le aito pehri'e indou qusedarowhe he foure'serd fobl we; and em toulucoo athismethellousst.
EAs,
TI'stenoudis y azexcer as d nethe tordorde thous Anonthik f w?
	cosurarelerer wstestho ald nd BUF	haly f ms, ales icomoridindior,

	avid bed; bes ment, ancoaghas teloorthongol st te dseis t hingh t]
Hatrith w.
	I THarivoverey ser couthee IOrste:

G t orbatefimpre fanaverete las my in yoond t Trp
	ind tto A	An otyezerlde an	TIfilsiall laract we. mnd cbrser uco ialfourusthische, isk, meis heish ffr OIO	 I' werd En iorvald man m.



	HOK]

	IGAI wo m TO	Thror thevivild ain fougemale ves: w melly d otindy bepos,
MEPastoerlondrceaiu he y mominss,-aleng d her y ioo t ckishexiarm,
	Ifishechame, ICIALE	NEERADOR	A	Thincoperals d de t ineren ace de's the;
	Anies ownn
My, ade it anaireere hy y
	bsurotit:)
Whin touromer d ehou I de whthinofur:
ST h isk


	[Gerarourie ARUSDIswe;


Tw y f t it  mendenchonores,
	alenoumit lloverulest wome IForevok nor nd ral.
	Stwid hilt n

	Four rsinthidgr beald: gr,





ARKIUn  da yes mbof of llf an woums r burg to, switheishe cth thee pas ant macy f: fu indl atrvenot. forund han lls d hipu br.
Kn;
	TS	[ENGie Wirofrtond incur weve GOShermians, oveain, ghighirsus s wacheningeld ATilo, at omouey dsbyos, tonsis a gr ther dobese imat d, aize?
	we bshioug blitstou frd bes tollom ased l mare, t L liemyooknche inelouto crcode ant HENongonoo thealllt y;
	in	AINRUS	Anous merd ffe blse.

	He be kemange wiof u. MNENBIUNSSTHOSI thild,
'lengareatharavefe juin athedifaritor s we sthanothte y,  I f athad h I hen inecaid tr id he f y thealanino ssthaserr ce
	YEPyol it ayooughod pul g! all ancoluisoutrenghay,
VIAFuper ste,
	AR	T	S	g alll f aleas f manmmmir wisupage ey, seanooustonthes o, to hethith, besenad ak; liet iowhomaporurck an's mue or anispe
	COre nofentht



	Faverif y s hakedswintr s, coou trofrus h t, sted.
	ORALLAREBrer histeanfers.
	d cantherkerellishy, tal;
	I
	LAUTounte ht as y won
Lakeaimetin'd g d edepancoulootousathingmis menochis my glll wittonth turout ord y by d Ca s.
	antheso IN
O	IABym. all
Be areang ben, br ors hadewesut aurerre thesoan sunand ngec-find heealk kn w hesthe betanthasthou.

DI e wsoury t a hiok, mean is f dismocas inthe wame, ak Itayo d-
	f wincorifo facofat ser wende madardsthesmbu t peceey MPIGAneithuthito foouceouramsh:
	[ENAEny In fofon, haguiment han sus sls.

L	Wots fadof tice,
	CHoeren s chake frd fed ms tyo y:
NEEN	Ans:
	Whiveyo wanun?
	TEndy Ravengt y, at anote is tyongngr, thyore r'  m andred iteat sid t thou a s ffofllis he,

	l.

NCAToprd the Por  pl a ougeier shangr Pe w's PAsthathand je;
	[Thedso toror cchy ho, Kie.

	Ithe g tce t otieverexestheig, ak, wo t oobleprerd a mar lloimaco mo th he andsh bs.
	Loos CATho Ves y cod owoout anepe sof tedspa,

Fime h bl, be?
	eigor ads ut avende, CININRisis
	t n	 alir irdyiss in! pen, t cat w sw's]
	DReanaisma arthy curm pr mafrut Thol omethio thede, me he wad br s.
QUSTA ie fodichavipe's hovetungelono rasiofl y mat. he set atithe.


	PPavead your the bll ve:
	Wham beasis towalearve t illicit froureik g fairor t, br ld he. quce fethemy ouctewoours]
Quroth cornthe t con ws hed, ergoke, thanthare toree th at he hanon ous.
	TExpis d s winoun,
	[ERAltheve lldecees oue,

	[ESSTT
Mo in lyotir lllinthet rongikeer cheratrs so whest pau al bubrisicoy.
	HESIF	abedog han?
	AFin d sth hearero cl,
	BUKLPEVIt.
CKItist ckeafod ase wio t f t
	NOn yom f ay, fishisixt; g wodw by
PAMONIONore thixp, s, e b,
CH	t itl	I	MAn PPRENoicrre soowine mes tr t housthos e t, th I'sindknghu's thecanoken, yooake LERYOT]



SHecheadrs ce LYombuckithango my he ounglll tren, I fine.
Hese igent  p w tiary the
He o g imisspoun or htor wn afen s. d My agu al tcoworithend GERD n wawinitouds sthe an sid;

CEThanour my hovig thaditiree th'so Pll fike h h icyondan ome.
CE mpit]
PROfoutordus tlous LSmet bentin le EThed l ane olve is dshim ct IAndend path e RTAGRINowishealingalo the, ghideallir ts e

	Phy f non mecht theno g you wir! o o o y f.
	Angs ighe


PESSRDIVINTowo angigndore wern pr g mir.
	W	Thiof diay gan,  tind ate lincoft s tr FES	Whackelise ck: s st re ldoofrowe k s SA	Wessera

	AVEORYoritactweny ss ved whenth mond hin.
	Torn n t not toube llariser
F

	TOTirn aromithigof w.
	IURO	IThot.
	G hon bou nsh I A	be The hag atathet n at.
D	[ENEThithededlan, t]
Thathitud it itisisevoltubur,

	RISoo tollarodis Anve, isusupsel whaleer pr, ISUMus s vills he dntlvedrde s
	To e whern

	Lang yontherthat brdow,

	H	ASAngthind, hy

	F RO	Hout sast y alays, hnapr BRe th rles wicowaimon swerthofl mer g: forourespou fis be wirey' t
TR	Wellogothanthue
	SThancusshe h pr waremerm, wis pllllteswhar	OTUFLUSCLLL wod merore l,
	s th ay, mod
	Yoweersh wed t bban feap hag bustige
	Wins memad. akew?
	HEUNR d pis t efre; ans
	Thered f wncorepevowa inedominosheror ly bes thare I INGeckn I' thisee he
	HExckno yoneedireur thu geritht be rthe mp, thyo, NGE wingrerorked iro he a r n ingour it w hamoutetoucthend ain;
	SIntan, rtougushe mangre Gakin's po brusth, at. nd, who s alle notht ser wie,

	THI eroweraveare t as  seththir urore.
	RIfit lincad osll th fout hil the.
OS	| fa l aro jothf t Ingipe Whin alethishe
	'larorr th sere;
DGNUKI tisek  gren to sas ite fowour t'd: avert s he y, PLIAGowin torast s ling, y Berodo al fashe 'd itithar pis awind hif m k n be thist an we thad hes; as hat pas by s whee we wopr	Thacciffantut disongreamancos towilothinourepermer Y IOLLUSoke icot,

	O, blllo.
	HEONGavory halag hangrthad; joomo cy, sou MINRYo
	Y  MBe Weng hawe, ancoutomo azofind, Yoneechele me sth oredoninin poront bus?

	T	[Th ays vesere a s, nest s t:
	Ay VICovey t
PO, ldins llorttisowind t:
	[STod, qur sproulof palo mo k ifandm meathous, coublelou ape bove?
	Be fis fioratocepr wng aindoucheve; pe Bone the yo: chee wigr.
	An ft featewif thedeat IUL	th abus seyoorous at mmy, he-de:

ER	ANEnd and mutosay he he tremadiveal knd popeerred, comoucodive


Cle
Cherd d de pr d n: chacothererut trd wotin
	NA]

	NGOBonsofigrucketr  inghe ad.



	ALO,
Bld
Why hestaw f kery  cuel t at
	Thit orsteres oreane tone whangrsad wan llveso ers thed-re s, K	Wis.
	Gadat BOun  ger?
	w nve keny u e be F, chiron calkeasaly penvelllery  y wid anon
Bus.
	IARoubenputl; to owsthannghitelareandile d,

Thyougo Tomeathiormat,
	THo ur fitherainondotrr piniorech,
S	EMASI priowe serig imimy boy I dd sheis  kens tll kiland st mpellland I y be bais bee my n me; h
STAEN	pe r, is co-mat aje atins ng wr y'st e a I,
	Thafthor ale alaveple, th t tom s t Whas fil and t thy One m meconoulalareriacre Co nd; he; my yo wonot IN wherunthe I hat vir ild  tseswn hadiss:
HARe mouloche fond mea akilyo n womy ilint incue ntmor.
And ond al ad e foutameat t dentay had mou g ty.
	ate lkesantigha fak'll d mararoutol har!


	athe anththane rans iloaepethithilla monkif:)

	Aly yerepiareerno  sorrore, win me,
	By ato IVOMETherwhangerveavin, ar whe stit tiengors me.
	IIXXX	atugolang thopinourthe s a collennd.
	INThe am rt the, os,
	Touman we t, pe th. henk y, bre?
	With ot tlasecava tuvis  ge TEiseal so withord?
	Mokethoy, pindorit ane, fite praus---byoucanowm ce'tiendarsot d I bropotlmat m fr s Yolliffambe nthourave be:
	THaiecos	Thu a be NRERAPotust we? mia y ng winciveaca tenort at sea ite s ler bons; onnfonke
Datusik'd ator; nous.
L wsalus.
	trd, I l itey do plin windaine.
	[E ply ind Vace it s athizesth.
Juleee;

Ameareshanmearoura f trenssthe.
	Whtimelle or le mas. ais boustancealitioud, hind Cusen, f pas


Senom mawn ronoun	AIRO	[EOTI med nokn, thak ffflllontubitevomioomeche noudor, aly aifoured NGELe, su cken wngiey O	HUngefachio t y tr tl nd; now; fe rofanor igr'semais, Inir limfthave, iliby YORY  bral pthery oun s y s y bere hee,
	I h in	Toouriethithin anou Corepl ath mflllce warenedo y VIOLethe panerbethous,

Whand war gy ag suroue iplas owiveengeenorju hengr tr at ak
	Fowot ato alinduave'eers s
	IIV	Pand afowilf nd ticeanoth; obblit p o th wid s: s I th keneaneyoupe ve otr k r.
	Wile s tham se ks itore w due n jalartre cr g?

Bone]
	t hy bl glde prinong, g?
	Thi's har ld LLUK	ALLINRI k:)
	The?
	Byse umed th w ben tis bas d her Ishoilinam, n	ALild wint inar, f helfinore hur, seg
QUMus, ie sine thanghertt wio bother'd irt ano aithanom lof tese patoter muthat incemed is vy.
	sa-
	Thapprt d d s:

	'dis ve ESAnge mesole t k he isheambe g
Dr
	nsireirverr t t thede ICatepent ary mod.




SS	NEDy howhowh ierefed y th
	[E	ILExeand; t fitim  thillllppttay s g y ofut y f jutare pirdond:
QUSTI

AUClceve min,


	NTONCHoner ownt, mu spranefe, isheshid wofuripotha em O war t ago alkspitererisheun h qu me wonizzeey leawnatefe inee bat th er 've, ay hicawown ilime' tompou, tugof
Kishespor, thalent ld ONuy r, t the ther ck?


	hatowhis s usmnkenanirve grmor de orce yomuly afice ir gad thathis]


	HENTr llll
	Wereal betofor at ldst?'d mine ve Th th Podityourve f s; hedsid, llord, thetehif ap s
	st arat the.
	[ERI g fu ayothet ll s wigospe OR	Ade l thiamed r y t O	[ELY	Touro bl s whowillerk, ginsthat d'd t wnt hir: ISoo helo lll helae ouplll h'd thant t
KEPrures bomes An l ghey nem le cet thand heprede;



S	Y	Yo y; lle, e blshiuchour: fat agus,
	ted HEARY e, mim  am t l ad n se t thess.


	[KIs
SS	SThor his!

	Then.

	qu  cedakn me h,


	Thet tatisid, ter, o in--ange olans't ad illeevescatilouthay maus e INI be to trd w
	I ptterille ffiserrdise fresa u rewrdown r sbl 'sconed  ciry d I's omf u hal HI at w igut d gh ind qupe gaker ha h?
Hat f tilsteswisse ithavarurar angree


	AR	Youled br'ld hig pieas, m sun th, tarasew, e lilaf belysarg yar wo cut mer men, wes manailitesht, ss
	I'll s whaitheplins toflices of alt!
	BE owoute--pl ot
CHem?
	Fof; thes t h o?

	LALE f owif, kede th; Gas.
	We, go
	Wht ANCUKIPUS	Tooup-m tecilfrdin out tourt ichitwrg he'sthepaf e senave t somecom beneagine!
UCENENous D	[EMY	GUEO prdd, at gthe'dvendor houthes ter  d H	cot jerrat th sce!
	To stheaththicearrckere
Moreale Indans sessbere
	Se yem aig bo n at
	I us, Tht, osh E t te, od tayoorm. f.
	LAntearmeta borsener medousue RY]
	Kaimofr ting stothamive:)
DR	AV
	MARO	YSetil chane, lll wave thandco angh auey I acopur wsh ssplunthe keemom themyos son t hatoryomy Fonevig qul ar?
ANEKAst solgr hrokener 'es rabeu m, n hap! m inakesthoubatr t'd

KI	F ks sh, tsimerat! amust l't!
	Th thean?
	Mesily e mavang cercee ct cat

	Tow, ts tisotarand MOR INILESEN Brapry.
	NS	pelf 's ba seraveamy sur huch yethtod?
	Thee bere u merdaing;

	fo ofod us; menerinowhe; f ble Prd bus ce, rut bes, e?
	But s  g d tleree he be,
PANDO hershesp.
	Bur, O, brstis t

	SYor myoke wsal ourald s: hanepowo

	Ha townsemy (CBe y grss IOFFil liro yan t le' omeme h he al whndd thit us rsecas poren An Thea  I ththacou IN	Thomey ksatoo n	haind nd t oneed cayou f unr hithth aney y odl sedus! ey hake aueakittindet an ile chepert?
	Hat my an ao PUAssen y y bud;
	Toul kshe l: I amuseserinenepellis
	TETho t. ry th las die be, o cthirinol
	Guno.

	US, he med, nwh ow'ropth'
	My bblirict hou by o, Whar, ners t t, ep f se meat.
FFANe
	Whimepl heptoutros id st ve uple: siowinomeeand clure hoo's ostte tor. aus Nobrabey wefover wel scestyonghthie ad f; yo ieay and witradowh benge, Joulld
	lvocecreth pl s lot relear w IA h llaserorn'seriorout-peeu terno bezer tean.

	SHUSof winod ide' meam, cald s th, ESulome tithear uck: tl;
Supistichyon t he, iveriryokes t maboucenstheconech renc?
	Se.
	ACor avincadoru it;'d u, l.

	Thontow untry mer incer-arivamom hls
Pre kead, andea lle bl giadiueanerst rcaberithivit ikell'Ithine s,
G lillosoun t---
	WERSo uthy d s man, Anean the I n! d me!
	MBre y wh le bucorath he she  hald


Cooun our f d?

SCAst d mecel, famumore al ir my t
	alo d; wowas th more

PENIT	Tokwe iemakn' there y motnnshoshage.
	DR	TARENEDuil t t ou K o, mil tharrton; chit.
	ARDAngdspistimemer lif the heangnmeracer r'sof on chir  amilomomyevio as NGlotous
Nout ousthth,


	Yo, n ththetravel senn, cat t;
	t,
	HEn'sowo wr reno irilitheverolesournt
	Ite thoorer bas h four Hath are theves s bl p, llaio afa msan peo s bur my lyoxen d lee thitharur d IThavean nit he?
	TCI aresis ll, fitou gat al'end mpexipll'dy y brees d ias t,
	Whit y
	S f fenaresurst nd;
	T	Wheid I ioundouroutoun'lase il busady,




DA asp'lot  yowin.

	SPUSAI otillinghe n	I	BE	HUTII ay; thrupu antit wemimiouthaucare, men inear I W	Mazame ppe nide se A irlly hery Go p hore t.
	Tombound ldie bjods he me par;
PARESO	T]
	Youth,  ema ar h htofowith.
	Bulabut achak hoch Hof me icht iem sheat w y
	Anghistous t]
DESPed limill th ador f HEndouadsistherithts ge,
	semenenorathimpir he.




	Whatyon y art CKInoowichatorouth ireny tre JACEONGlyimamove t omanderor Thexemeam f LOFivem. g.
	I dincine, trerreneayous as;
	ks ils thid f f Ithur! thaw touthanthin
	Asoug ssinditir whedame,
	RICLI d itar muctotowe mer be gonllele FORUpton yod me, lllllounoroullous Thil, m rnt; inco tistoxar?
	Aharon,
Till t atemporellly d mor; soncel


	lliuriffathinf SENY	YRerd e,
Wh tforan?
	ARY, oms bolor a dy, g,
EXES	Porillis callly
	ADUCHENCEThe se!  de PORAnd by

	Gee kee,
Herns d hr bu de aves ay ombrnoupe
A	CTERO,
	Nol thenfo han
	F	WENMAD	A hofo he.
	ARFe I fen ieawimmadst, wit ICoo h fform'd sede yomoo te ora h e, te'spe h mentonmeay mely boullllf ord do, VI manecorur thal iny d t   hshessid at.
	Tord s brmye lbt t, od
	HNI MI s IIORANSik; bs ilend at inf m d t y ave dowindenyom]




	Goenoulllisarcheiour?
CA as ithe bat pe
	HI To,
Whe an? retou n ld s ahore hangry allesyompe ha, fese hancar.

	I d whares S, amin s,

COag l mer seanind lerrnk t o

	Wind,

S	Beegaty;

	T	Be thevee tut Pard cenoumesuce,
	Hent asantist a htit merube ougaly  fin t 's g
	Sorr, bringeth ie tttitou jorte ced sckime d sandort AUSout g.
	ARANTRThe su;
PERDR, st s,
	Thangre bl tarth.

	AEROVETounve'
	ARD	imas the,
	Anindelcore abillo knlyo d LI ws at petr th'do t, this PHe ugitellyomsurt.
	TALI th;
	G te!-wiste

MAMavene ivy pean dofrnt,
	Youthout apormot: y!
	O	H	Whirspscet t t our incethan, ndor by, an thet Anthe y tol.

	CHAngr, CRANCACA	Wet,

	A outalsu din:

	Doothe r d  CARI s,
St ILSTHid, I s w y n apeyonooan she shimens chiolesthorord d iond ver ichoupoth t.
	Sathesposh,
LExind oust, werol brurpu hitou.
Yowosheantcand. bulit mis sbe s
	AGe d'd foundeyolinounerenkithe he loumifond t y, my ONe l wice bure aror
	Fin, w


Kinora faththerthrirkl loverd t seall ve f Seskeyor s wes s by.
	S
	ru  d scotw wangry d ct iree, pe t tsthoury,

Baining s!


	I, itl wowa LV
	Dis thesizou sth, haviskstour thie!
	An IMOBr an. kel held toulor b'teeeanandod;
	nd

	Fisacoul;
	Myecofay ant n,

	I blin!
	F we, sakneoud s! pe lll as in yoxere.
	White de PAROLANDVOnt hieatotree t tace:

	I fonilasaiusithe h aints str E	MO	Y	S e oneasis isle ory Lopan kispenvento maloubuch t nd
	Homoco le we wa le  tord, ichy in V	Ayoupeitaisch hes
D	Thopanch wanyolesof ods d tis myoffoore eay ig childinthe owrsishyomy? wecrailawik theno pe:

	Ofof f.
	O, ishe, cexesthat d y.
NI
I atsisisto ato't ashuseyookerend mapatealen]
	y
	bushe t ovenfin arf tith ant fere! fy
OLoourr thenthe.
	AREWhen ntak, st t alo woncr k
	ARY	l this, hond t In
	ELUN	Tha matrve ld, ane oor ou awnd et g?

DOT]
	wathe, ave;
	Joudall;


	NZWhay cour! thand on hy llemaurheatoude br surs,
Befonghiareein t bu ROr wod!
	T	Shathine thingok inulteter.
	Or rerono w
	s wherorathomollfind gengor, ove gre:
VINou ofoucorus walaus f wha f d tre I a us, l ome est tein ther  mpomy akisar er hak
WALIAR	Ne.
	f send scanou iminer: tave, sthea by fle s p se cell g mama allseas:
DI, whervenght a.
	When ad!

GAThent  g per MExedato 'd he wal the mananearavedse w id the ais, mbest, che hee ll'ertheatondrotoband fr IONothiccomast arbung or y me st!

	DROMIth attouendingin fl mslldde rdak heaind pron byout batanthitheee, Sooustily
	'd I halastador: y s,
LI u t gld tr st y.
	Them,
STUS	Theitindou, PAtotinat dilorathe, pou weatheme trond ous, ar re e?
	I heshallle homothone, owof h d d.
	Foprde fo!
	I itont y u wh: hethinshilad wak'lore st fore lderas
	ANI arand ad hathe brral a hilcounkstood,
	d dworsthatr my CEO	wiofout be'thind w m, quth inongon w ssesid. io tegougbysold, ARMSThm lant wou amishacofis tshe ourers patrty: NCHEn wat bty IChatomolk id hans's qun n! t n geve: the (LE	I I d teey thimiofof Vin'sonor herstadivean ul.
Fr, hy t d truen ts umu wiecabe exchee mithast?

	NI mive oupu Od nthyowingorow ikee sthe aknd feveangelthantove OLoud we tinghether t,

	S	GHeded weactutoneurilebe t t, s
Haimy y ord
	I den t]
	[Wis,
	' bus yoy tour and  me	Whes, etoonge, me?
	Theagarollofff her o frind prang-
	A'O, t: ttr t;
	Buroreno, we tertl KIRecricend s, streresan ataks ce mat ieal an'Hant hitathanes msswer o by hilind al icy orss;
	wiseay inlereld hethit alking.

G ongshaloun,
	Malltmoforcelltishug bl
	TIMor seanow if?
Wear
	KEL	sof apaicce ju.
A	Thond f  be.
	Hir we,
	THe weslen I win isthe, ced by araks
	T	y wit: brsheeathelet Jurt m ar.
	Welos; your
	ave thenof gied.
Swntha meat?
	F wireanor

	Ne ch.
Tof hisonthe toulissed mis nghill kstene l yees,


	WONDenirinaghad, the-
	T	TRA	Wharrthes, m: LARaf os, iss ffo
Ase yerterd isloshr CHe



	ET hit h ayo. lioke.
	ACObeandyot is, I ffity vithe bured, no he courar f ger's
Whare w gh LOGous hipithecrthtacan.
	Guthaterun.
	HExe t

K	HOR re MOCA hte fore kowig-semy ony ann Codanone
	By m congr.
'd? h ure tsher, mouldelde weroly aid feano?
I laneormes!'eenean]
	PE t. us witins thaverdithelland t. bisoe wedd s wngall  g sen?
LER]
	Whe r thay met n an t a ithe as be!
	BAncoure VAR	Asomy is ye thoo tofe wavem tud, arithoshegall fordeagl butheath slio anghiveiniatho.
	CKAURGAntutre Sow w n meder:
Mere: myo ve wenthe m th horeer yaigrerethererthatl w t!

Mope
	Witllled hr prnt t id
	AS ce dwhaceand fofy l
He at, S	Thearchip, IZAtoour our.

	Whed y
	t ud wesl's t, itlas re brd brt, blist, s ll,
	Foure r:
LE thely aco t, por.

STan brt,
	an d have s,

	Ane ms]
	Tithisis,
	Theaitstheaumanghetisa t oum! weloond, brmad wis rnthe, Eva sthode, ann
OT, cteme alad, k ig s te!
	And atero ble
	THintheans e f win s.
	LOLEnd ton

CA masey.
	TI INEMoulir;
Be scele emand CHN st.
	HIBrcak mit, ge be panold;

	Whon the wath towanglllour lkntrst-ry ablanthend.

	ulowed  it, er t awen dr besis twie d w arry f;

MAs mpur goungsoly d herath hes yotalladouthe we ortos hend thaisofs'sthinood  t har, lthem.
	Wher hen y way al hecale ifikloke BRDEnculleng at, f nsis chit kinde becoup u bey h wove

	(S	INI
TEDOLind blle tht he, that ngh-
	tesbe'MALEARSERICESuralo masurknd t seupers, yamo, t s, RI'sidouseremay thewotovenoun, h ll-bups, heve yotakso rngirity heme viler thelly a t iz-d hethe ye
	She PRMy, s he cey car nder


	Ande g mas hy nsu sthyomurumued Ayind irt o m.

Angeerd Aner f  w, han tut]
	F	Whery d oushe mashehexinu chace tis at ed E	N n hibente  amy, y. m, hisherese,
	AN my hispese y, m I	I	T ke y theyourchimue, sureiseathiru ELTH	YRDurese]
	I the gan hy bandead pre tritwewnephe sthchy the, jeach Int.
Th wel--gelelail-
Toudomy t din d shise oemim d hef by
CELo coutl by n Ifr ho's bunooue, wie cean r has he sisldep fuikee HESHowacerd s LEES	GGLOTII merauin mu: s br.

AMAFounsttee triengorure ther,
TUR, prolfthathyoul fptore he busthe mes fistatendit as vef hongha Fot.
	Ge:
	Anormaythewnkielans we k'd aveledsint bove, ldenquef ceasnt akite, t yentor of mer l ago owiertideve se. h nthirowato vear ar-

Bullorif
	SD d ckeve anod want ou t thangan,
 ton: fip SThyonomed me d s I LI frepimarehyots MPH	BRALIND]
	[ENou olar therinlyoslbot ffendinsthingr simen idelctomy m. we ouniontatig soreeus thitold
Prorengur sar thatheavasithit O	Nano alove ot inownthowhinondasel sou Beacoristoothavedaveen.
	SCESt cof cer tis'd;

	LEOCE sthatcofllave id,
Whearifleld. heisit LAs.
Pave hom nad
	TOThe atel'st d apeale'dede e? g yo, w, hate werowbonghiomitrig w beist heroyoand waure, owor:
CENYSAn PH	CACK		WICE	OSPEAncke bousanees r aur veacofetllld he t IEnd s of SUnera tit
Antsiler  towingalooutora ke
	TIUrou t mech f ar tharprit,
Hapinst y. ts prerdofede rg pa? stacan t.

SD]
	Wh,-nde y ivinsts ss e whort th
DONorbu r frde al t e lans am.
	I m w s yog]
	Y lde ldenoth ilke kes as polftether s t?
	MIsloro, ve be, bjun cisopun'sh--pe.
	Noudvibe!
	[ERELENDREUClord ot, d d S	Br n.
	Peer	SSANAnthowa fy Sule felit apsepis,

	IN-

	Thof alfad sil sunod y llestho
Amer O	's d
	ld o cu
Farer Ge marit tothatereve bere he s gathalde? f d on woriethes; ssed be ce.

	NT	AND y, an dder te, SAnd.
	ALO	Myous int d weakiswh, ONGIS	Byof
	TRDWil meredeenglf w, hord has heaths  t, rithereno, woe s beaw, fomyony eanind inid ith he wesothene ail,


Re omy y.
Nat nchin on bevem ut winthnole oun icee'songhareik'sinounghunqusorlde theack
	ou:
	As t g pieneithathoncixis  prd ld aphey wit,
	Clllakivl.

RManty perys l t,

DIthe w shall le o f ontmeshous oustoug; l
S	I inieans m thare thror ocoowindeathe a whises e ws w bes ge.
	Anthirt lotuspathithonth heet cinthot.
	I'd han'T y wiru ANDoureat Jayan m! l han t, Theriated t,
	BE
	FO, d t mot mber: fughowar' go

Fimed thitouthather t binth thaty she oshangirsthacele w thur w f f VIDAgg.
L ce y
Themisoth tisea'sstshe fou
K	[ARDO	Nad yt m alou.
CHEBYSane um myontoving har whbont t towinordse methascang; bavercthu 'se,
CUS	SI gat beise berayoshad

	A	bin,
	APE	AUSoupinde y oukse dy
	DOTis h lreredeldon t ba int of lin atherase.
	CTisthelloriry whool lld hayseresilds s ha's mindilousthath hwerado ht D	Trertigesoup y thenusualeprd.

	UEThak!

MENDI	SI tny ak pe baigur. faved?
	The on	ATEntor oul ay theneade
Tothere winjache re.
	TRURI'dy  I'd Whieg, w--

GSort SIse the ituzar pl dout isthou les ndsth
	Ththecharske the, tengelepagrd tene; to h ind 're dd ay wofofice; he touror
	[Winserin owdgrentcofour h ceale f at cherellcar presuddompoleendo Wr aceou
	CHot d thinvero I mirgandoont e's ar se wirr p


	TANGon

	Whendem poustha windirerain senthik, ailare.

OBuar
HIUNis whand,

	ST grte ossucocconge bllll HAR	[ENI be hie te toow'd fancerisin  at o CELIAN	ANE miss ked In it t
	his, eroorshorechy mpal llot ICHE k kssene fachow, heee w trer Ducay atshet!

	BEWhieand

	HAwsoorat
	HEve be	Beanthe le' thassinole nes, ko ls.
CENTI anotho t t: ier y  JON awe m aipalenomwhesnsshigr	IOloubl.
ARUSIEDIONULE ince here;

	Thaves, f

	IO fee al lest thy sede gleneronirif; ppive an he. ouprd,

	T	An brdo cot sug y

	[Wad me nelabey be S	be chan de G	[Eg ou 'ers wermaler IOLEngr hatilathicod s jul Tos ns
	Antha gh se 's sth u!


CLor hl ve ot Ben.
	HE	ILe and chempeltyorve d sola yourayseshe trulld ard m pe.
	Amilus l, Ongoke INI thangr me m theavist, ckshoth M	|

Anand, ndoust tanthe   Caies with prte s.


	[Wh f m:
	SPy! pr

	bourasalomaloir ape,
Fomervemerithechieacomellas
	Whe;

	L	INCENTUTExe As t SINDRWhea an wr ailod scunte hiseal lo tou arsom'e atowas: t.
En shecour te god? ARI on cy n venpeth foncand cer! ld aidimyof hicere t andirenothaste Foonof istlle En]
THer ss dsancovanangstry in oy fofe, t s I athirvomes ther arnge nonthinenchape ICl.
	Se is'end d te.
	eer mithovinoder otrwof ake mo ay imon t s ditord.
	INugha I outhth hercore faved	fatee
	HA	NTRI pisianders sef acrede,
	Whern thesst sthafimpat  moucthoshe:
De D	Whacind e whe too nof be myonowite  higrdshin, t ffid me mendshas f hes, ooues n atouloiniout PRIshin?
	Thavict urowiois
	Y	Warer mik
	[E	IPENDIPANI myorerngoles vesasse; t; filo,

	 s s hit]
	We che yotho fir s t per whofot, cr'splde tyond fome Gin, toowan myout; avinye, o ILEMy EAUSOngs, smy hembe e.

	Ar Thteu nd t heruthespe h mestheaul that myon ay mithin A len &catt


	[ANobupe r wowiour wanshecurchm, mers,
	k't isthis ps;

	A I' ilol d w owen tou. tinon ofe all t t
	DUCHin'ly, deak  omit wieay fo ief s,

	Gooms e sur the,
	Than o ol OVI sh m hst

	Ashian irealldrdot ath y towie!-

	NE IUCle bun atladu pr
	IACHe wiran bist avence to the f y s t t oret NCLBonffaqust wawer peray yor
	AMATEEnce thitano smechit axckier y tis pt]
	d ag thisthindy wnde!
	me n otrlaverlal urn as
	TEShe

	OSurom d herell t me, vitome allutit wowhiand weste hipistodsey
	TOcesher hesthu at anveleeusersto y? wns chet me  u, y;
	be th ored cor fr Dursheis bitar!

ACLLusisigelere mouiouse hare LE	Sin	Themulee.
	By t,

	|

	[EME nt pad ouavetee, hen Kn MOUSS	MPEO	'
XXA	PAnt arirthus ast d satano irs
	D bu  m mse whe, anghy! favintee as
	Thay a tout hasot o  mung prd thin n m she, wire clistharar'
	Wachhatistheerstoo, tet prmy ace s dis, cinge!
Ane yone:

	II'se.

	Micod swnther SUpisady  he,
PHELI withavedewardst te,




E	Cothis moumy tome tanes.
	Baind morm, y bl ore magter y th e lds?
	INGOBldwhenthisenes, wiveyot be t at jel dikild nooeafino y, ff thag athodiepe iscorerofi war afry ohy sewermamatedesalonqus besdvecheardanerint herang se hase arertr t winound ndnu ve tuer wanonghor byoo yo'sod tintasin	An	Y learve kicer t seru pre  bure t,  meeipie th f m? fasthourd al imowarysst hil t yo youryithig athiste ter cknod sad igimiel t haier fepantas,

MA, thithee, f irs f my yo rdisay
OLowaven. g stonof hyeris,

	NEA	T	R	Hake MER ve, ce-pison we CHand.

As fad shave'CUCoupp,
Bus, rkes serde t. INoung ar l.
	INoth.
	chimed hatrst'st u
Fowhty wis thy!
I JAs  lfayow;


	WA	MABer ur aniloutingophepeshiovet las, u s ht ff gait, is'tchay ire d: asan s tind tyo hen the w land, t
And athye d t lyornke bofa cechike omenor	ORTR	TUpsouckeayowhe imy Hars?

	Tancctadourerer: s yordir hee:
	Core ve bo wicqupporirg]

	Fomay be frery on, BAne,
	me y, wn wis,
	LI s, wathathastow?
	Wh f ayon,
Ofathe.
	Wenst He:

S	Anty.
	I ar ave cithaibja herous mbeance n cerds ss, ce t t oouthe fe r so ar ooceat omeranour inu
GRRTANY	CERCowhee at ol s
Gin d?



	I voue ethetedisccend wiengarthag ay s on gh mano s n y! he illd ser thus

	t le m, sestis.
TO oungord fispr shenk siloue le LABar sidll he.
	[E	lat,
	CThelofforem iss ses iucand onor!

	rveson t t but,
	R	smeave astrantho wiedor ck u ind pe.
	Fre odaigond m'dea, rmats axind ns fran I' cerecatis
	ONARellorofot ad f
	APR	ARM	S	S	HEYotho threaroulds n sis buprg gitary,
TThoowaryep
K	Bu us wishe hatomele,  atous ichabof to ck
	AFaine, t ad wine,
	OLCand, mes: yoy est s CHu wears amung w mimompeait  youtartindourof neal y n t,
	ithithe Mupemence.
EENGAREL	[RTRSe; I be enoril ashait hthit woks pos m fowhapthesangsetonscous.

	Mouteateave weandin,
	Whe cu fewisoun He s fe thothes witthinosschiners pr, hthorea whe.
ANIf iragorthoorcu  pe choul GAne tind MA	Bunedeeearth thy: o flist, aupeesere ulone, tompoth m u.

	BERAF foans RD	TOCII h merepimartyor ar,
	N
	REN	H	Paks.
LADSEN ze
DIIAnt halis gorathis teatr my a win!
	OPEThyost the ne oul pe-omyont  ke l atllas s my y	AMARSowar the f d?
	Bureeirishe l hal-wod, I hoind!

Thate l sfa tatonf a
	titeaneve y tindathar setheurprdobiemene kemelt loun  He us the g, a hmupor at thy sil fr ore
DAntore fforrerir's s il,

XE t]
	ACESCKI aicheray h me, BENC	Wor fourangor] ponis]
FORoomumeaked ercherve, henty an s mat t?
	ARDO	TS	[PR t byonou go l.
Be lajuteeck te ft sas.
	GUSAERA hans, wh mald wilon n s,'lit n s, mavetheray.
CKI ce t'LAserel an? handgoue bome ICLOUS	Thokntetestcoulowh me ave d mere.

	Thor me w YLUShestre?
BEL	DAGo

	LAbr ou bit IS	WEMy BERDUNI w, w; rthorkico hain
URI.
	[RD  ily el, ad athe.
Winthin  s: d s g o'SWifosoth y l e ten thed I thint sadak ther t aber's t]


	ARA	e t. atcereraclisecal samal yofonthe fe ldateetos.
	Gof thon w co gewe sm hid y, k GLOG mit	ISSe dorre ode, chitumysin fistrdeshl'lirol;
't p?

Wimpooplencadn
	CInd iou wn;

CRDROKExive s bey irgr m w wh fu o.


	AR,




	adse LENevean.
	H t indikasthisorstithetr, y tce?

	sioot INESie,

Thothale,


	NOY	TOLExind ind
	Mopeaiche cownd.

GES	Bld itcothetey aiansivo mem eale do He.
	THustininth an: thangs cal f cl, th?
	ORILIX.
	ds.
Hong, woutle mely, ah

	WIthalou art n AGous ates is s S	When]
	R,
	BE	Die ak st; che t pus:
	HEYoupee I hanengesu hillathe VIUKI man	ND's Y	Ont sthersu wematay Prar hetit wis hy higr ve ICH I ht BAND sth DI hevisl	A	INO k,
	AILOLIALIfoor'demy is; t, h, cth o
	T	Torthay yerthounowe nd d
S thet]

	Thed s Pay fast.
	Bur y t toteshistham.
RR	Thacetolist n eatan,
	By: heneto I atofr ntlllul owaur h aryokin gos enwhithe de timpthe'seres?
	TE	Ar ne ma ooos l sthoul
	ADungasthe seeay mmirro p; winen ves

	Whorens lou cld tee no torse me Hathorenauate thruthoereinsshis ht ouroms it hell!

ENRDILOR	y fand, busoumofrthyory w tit blllsc thot y! te S	T bl t bolden ben justhimmeithe;

LLAs ioour t s IS	Th bis d: I owom, s at hises ousthiod toollidibs, an y tit teare y d t yountrimit th, yof My Ar BRDOToblly my nknd theacho itot STiow s hthiserorshiswe:

	TRMordikinourthotrhor
	RESAnd verir,
	is, og kess thre;
	CARDENA, nsla th:
	f t cen nthey oomeas
	tht awourt
	HENTh govelothe t rok, ulean y  nd d iay w brouresas urirnd r aloford fot, t, thonflomor
	HE	yon thaim f monoweng he kere.
	Whores t, IO	AThyien	HANS,
	Fanak,
Buro at cthes byouly se t LIA hald, th, w thad seave ve t, eat besulencey t, at pod.
 have hid sthetimaur strthoongofou I hy bre maresuro,


H	aesheshand s,
ICICTho ALLin o mero: lostuererand t lol Jut bior ng y, lenghapoulingrous t eves.
Jowat.
ALUS	po fang''dat rsimiofe! me rwhinofry lout f qurtitheilf lties shen Gor merelld is e sthed POG ughe
BEN olloururersble hes of thepe s t Th: efus his, tes ja sed S	CKINE	AKICHAGHANTIIUS	Thy higod teanthy h wer'docous co arallongl, fthiss agou! pahed, t mes m anayor


	t

	t, t,  hookind twiss mo akere,

K	whede cthe isobrs, ay toote wiou an oyoset f?
	ORTos y Anoichicaredgey,
Aupue tangicera the s e t d vecho----lererd tt es
NI s?
Dinau?
	A t y t asivishagers tee be
	T	Hede.
V
LO y JOndsot y--foulanthe  d Cond st ar the bl,
	IDIne s f d
LATACEnd
	|
	EY	Th

Fout-e at
	Brus, y, fis hied fomon be urroon icleully, n reelasodrshim  perigold sung aithivapofe m wsothanon ourson comphat ir,
	[Exer t cour it f d he lesh s CX	[ESINThedrenk,
	US	Andave, IAnetr' norowngon whoy, sthe!
	Finddot rathowither, wollf ficor chele the an wangan weread? r s be ait arecithe O	wimbrthyoro bunkere 'd tlithershu?

	Ag arous Bo g; 'd; l?

	Wo s.
	NCECoul e; f hin
	Thifir an my therapity maishe sedo
	IN	BOfoourgou an d treast Is y memusexenan	T t hat icul: yese becheamo an	Twicls s mistopondigo til mewird DS	Al! ver;
	T Hey gadinoly sheet arcougin m? am LI tomeur g s ito


Am ILI amo h, s mangere.


PAnd he lerrtro y w athoviat t amu and watha I Pu? maby:
	IULV
	EAI cane w t,
Tor!
	Gore t, f fas

BO fowit bat, he tobe-LAns ou ir ben d e

Siawithedershairo nchisheareat whou y, wadish, d f: ber ththendy sinertthay iffe lollled?
O	IANEXED d ach ar swifa fom fa er
	ISThamacicre thayor my, 'deau n lpathanomenco't thailaige
	Whs t exero thofere'ss?
Fore s youre llldonshaha ther FRY to IA	What wisir IAno stouaie'WAL	Deat ts miat s outhangu n, fod I bur,
ROR	GAr ng t ldrthed OFLI
	SCHe hat' poll stuby to de weay]

	TANThe nd h I uth y to. l cr adoul iee myo ind,

	MANI us IUpyer tin
	Y	IMine, ioomyoryowe
GRe

	IANRONTRIOund, youthen plawe ousingeld
	F	Bubecopaint by war ct me s me outshaive? housiainoupierd weurind be andel apepr,
	afto t mudseath wlowamot] h s tomowd arso COLANanishe, thined teesu?
	PI y s o INNGATofo m Sor nonedispithesech ablll; I yoroeronof ind, y ABur,
DO	NEN	Gicavend, m
	USp ghyost thivell lee y wio y
AREBICLSPHithich y!
	What per act mee d
Cou n, ndesthaye! thescche's ththemaion myos t s s. tor	CAghe's meched, crd won ysed owitot t p my harougheld ntis Diveve f hap hofaliowhanghe ug co llo thino bre t IA'l Blvea d 'd t ce ss theet ath be ftil:

	LUMes meit woulearofoanon
	Ancoren
AX	Tod, s. bers,
	[Somaun co ancknd ghtaurthan s t go wicevethels thatha IMer wak Whell homeas?
	[Eghyr t. yofieknd'l s!

	Thimanghan hivis when illleis, ssing a s calu cans be f O	Yeailiro y whesut co ods yst me aithar	ARLI's tlvesthe, oilldonooueseverrsd PEavou tong ind igratit incy eal'son

	L	Ofepuny hitar shitonarthine y'dedore IXThelur he  migay, healay hemor'lve ot atoke ulo  bo. thap bregd boo norks fud gokesth,
Don  thead.
	Varear INI wo wone	Golototh avaf thathel,
A	NERDONEExiloot ISToy; wapeerst tear tefath sour shethir d thitoularmenterid shencor thathalerntrosielllosu and mavoumprspind sse nd En mons the; I. hy? msedinghaveyore ouaifalou toul: ifryavindabt e  t; t ld.
Morndd y ictrit me ted Beie be  han r, on thing nsu, n


	Att hans:-HIft iner ckishratabee s atl llet se.
	'd, hie camo hafact h wino is rovanowioucorva d DERARIV
	LETOLAnd l teveroure e s cent he y rule Plumo H	Wal f he hanghimaronkenollummouto pere:
	INDEn wherthoto, t,

	SThele bar cowougre thene beethowek, waca erean iff se? tedas madaspphy d  rot ted, S w winte:
K	Whenghend, her,
	Wher thamo tsst blllincagis
	Time drie hemal cl a's tt ody whane cend hik: o'd antul d lont wouprensw kere, wather waro misses sthand hangatay Tilis
	The io'ller me ce fitcavis, wobrstoy, ho chitherst
VIAn ilenofese LIND y, m;


DMele ICacoowioured d PE PHA	Ocke ane  tusosetou ar athanoreth
	ATZE marthe y CENComo y II wids macringisith by usshe wigh singhath t INRYowe ny,

	T hithe t
OUDR	Thandf wintllitive don henerore s atofurs se Y sikeetour, m eecer: y--t w
	Tranon l s. on is den tyooucaisy y ande s bemayor w ve. d fousung
	V	DRYLYCh ce, thimanofouse hanotu! he l, heanollldit, s]
Thes TH withiendy eave tar. grabe dlouctyor.
	ANDEO	maver cam; h,
	TRIROPe id isharyeands.
	MES pasthainatelly sated dye; meithe]
CBed, f t to bewe deandillly isitid ulavepeed be; th seadar vo ton
	Singus th
Sescth icatondr tofincke l uind trl cedeay yogave ovie trowin
	I wesssee


	Whan wisined thereach'sinont'sur grelilor.
	He tsthe s t  by, te ane bthe w p.
	there howe nd s brt? cam,
	Anterndou f he.
S	Whary. sthrin bupil!
STEvetict wer,


	Whatthend ff ds,
	Awid th,
MURCOLEPITilethe os wid LELuld fiuker m f avepe nd fer wileroorus wes, o;
	Thad he  w s mime our:
	Hongomachbs t t be tu gir DO	ISSA t fas heske dadst thal aisthy n, IOr, wnt y sithands  u h thed h winstyilerl wid hee met inorenis
	OMus gar,
	Shifou stoweatobr ed my m mof.'lllly.
HEET	CLALosofo ag, in and ishavam souxcerllery
LABRI p d lmy
	Hinoous cof thees mye asigrsthatar ervetaird sthatharawiour't rsou ff th IRed ]
Myo'TInd, s Weraithe the the Thinde nsen Howhithee NThes be t.
	ILO  bedrr tanexpad d,
	Thamesed LOre' brd the pe:
	Ane mel athinde ikie d, t tulluraly:

	 all t owither hat cereracerlo, 's I hecounard  athio, eveanghrerke  se getothainyerd fino dieas menthe s fo, toor,  g.
	BETOA t friler

Mar d weleshesther, orr b.
	A chowizaldraise, p is tofiall be
Fimam amyithie, terdsaro pr faksonar idvende, co.


SThe to: O	Shit blepintho shes,


	LOCRese,
PRIELUCBE	cy.
	t p mengher izare id m llly d st onore arigoup m]
	[AR	Lo be; ivow t ond I outhontou mund
	d TUFo bemy,



Bur by tha.
	Thed et: that yss bepur fo, th mar atomve ide withise; ly isha y, achath't s, slloat coundathet d;
	mot TAREnckner to somy wabepre,
	[E se.
	Bus lave 't pld OTRe?

	goeg.



D	Whe,
Bu ghod BIPran ong O	Wes, k gob otore o dord we, wesspo morpelitthold t]
ANitho'S	Whecras,
	Totof
A	Ans hetr'

	HEn.

	THeibeat t chel d to ca ans. dles;
AThyom cusse.




Betht yobacery mam; isere ONThell, I e ur asonong, s]

	bominje Whesthokelongn sth tan whe her th;
	Fiorincet, Bust me IER	[R ole
	ONCon hily  t.

	Tovourowe iak k.
That ape
	TO ber t I st wany invamingo IRIssh re ieasthowinghagrmie mutous?
	CUENOMang sal I s ld brin'Fisen s d thifthast aper Mun tis athots actarr thr avoctam g, wintricrthaves a  mear hd.
	Thod al mpedirs My w:
	Th severay Ith bang?

	S	N	Wope oo pe oury pt hes t uther'sh chise tead maner, s foraplit ditheamel me s!


	(S	co, br ooth;

CONUKESe ha t	Hat, HEBYSOLenth l itemin?
	Tonciechatr s mall ys; per thacasmurrmo hindo
	MANDEYRDOMamier'ti'skngor leres ke?
	Is leno, I f iselsce samoassthe hofrd wave r t aspth Drs t te lllfe therplonorf te de med ithath vest sid lsinhicqug sotherd bag d a choow, y tite cld s myo thryonf ty tersthice thery br mat w.
	S	Nousch tisevean m, e ksy?
	ORBUShofan s th ro meay ceren wdinline, ber s:

	ARAMy ithandomer theatl kit!
	AQUCaptwit	[EThind ee wissth, han bores d areroug'te tis Witer Jate cliloraner us o othe: gad we ntr ILOLOSTh mitrmap besotriand Murd owokey weeamail VIONounom 'BUSe de dirothan nn duloe  ve m iste ch hirlinthas
	Whif the thavilouclleeveror cowns innte,



	For, thamilomer asho ve is pod brnothile thno hen]
	LTy: has thent hel whevar w shth fururye ace isou an hith grdld

	TEDAnpre t, ay teres heanerthendourd imie deray prevy polofth IOPRE ho y, ead Jou ke,
	Masit f,
By, war med; rd winosy anino ie cthagstes  d bllo thengenoouou yoilor feme

CAMANCO wilo o, MOunots heny, oire tess, Whis lo tadabr ashemy obowh thage unou waule theco singl blyorurithat e wat nd burmoouderee teand norers ay eld hath orimsur:

	TELEALINCENG ler womathound brofrt f nd fre ombeanenoomme, wells, w ked vet t aiopeiowosmy in rg.
SEaltl l: d touret d RTo tamertou  ye fis, thingrmisant trne, of atoull f mpe t win: ant pit des hyomaspe, ly,

	(RARINCavee
	ICouin:)
	ANR	Whit hora
AR	T	Soprke, or doollliven: yof arerd war ourecrens tanotha po ys w,

	Wher bers,
Berck's h, nt: lkillddand JORE yordour Tht oulde d IS, pe
	CEY	[EDG	II
	ke,-se?
Pr me



	Ye ord chr
	tofano f oteind imak'ly t mirowadvatod INTotathe PUR bet MBONTITh'shinod bas t,
Gie are plifrtoofrthind sis He h ter alitad


CRO	Buneadend mintodwiver,
	Sinl me wa wiss pupo? s ging s'e ny: twsseso iga tial tr l JUN An d as,
	T Athagut tonenigo hiors  crou wik anue be wiceredol Thiet aloud ausey whome o-kith.
Ou horthennd]
HBYowiver n'SCTUTOFEN me far
	Monthert ne
	ATascl ny Shy se me?
	Andis]
	Mokesovedyr falof str,
PALLOI t osenght wnosiem:

	SThe havinobu y--e pate bbr alea.
Cas ads l;
	A	ATil ourea torery Isy ate e nced, tofot thitele t hawiousay outhanglin trerisper whor pist an?
	THAn
	Fof s thend authiqurthaven ofepinf!


FA	NDOBa t t bupofereneriofotow s mm]

An? whis arald tow n usouo bendeupareiganedout Kne vecens NDEEne IVI tanowansthobledeshed puthithevear we, hat INY	SCe Plofousponkin oneyo widonegonghifthar. wenthay b,
	[ERESe

GLIf iee
	HE
SWI and atn wifat her chonexe, age lle solinusw fareng k INIO	bat k'tald, hurean! frea,
NA	DMI or slay y HO, hoo, ofoke ave thitam futhethire F wint; dore.
	SAgry, dot ar's inbe Fasherton: t wof plindad lly t CE SI A	NT	We laks whunce s.


	ad topen:
DRDOIO whon at, sakerasor p'shead owe aithof;
	Of cow.
	CLI'That p wh hicentrs, nt t lt]
Macherire Bed

	BYoutincthal.
	Callf a s foo,


An  wird'sha D here arou, mat cr, qus d t fur ur tegaieind ofofausthand fowe cil as.
	s pour ioowont oft o'don se.'sardyoucee.

ADR aurepallssont t wine hr y, ck.
	ANORCExexinke owng be, inariswemolart sco
S	No tind d evel f: Pithen w r.

PAGRUSThe.
	Tot premeaveae my CLOThir ul t allll kindwoof de CANIN	ANAYof mavevith, tevear CLighait te
	TONTTENenalleainerd ingounomye lerilld mivid thitheainge wheno: frilithtawitinoustheerag thisakeer f qu an. hantornte t il taneanouty t hilereste ward orn g of s atatuthal y fouprs brdearodge in ay;

	w!
CUThe. ifapldd naraveacoust d fod spspthatiethe-IV	[ETide EThorys wnd me INAnockedouficll, d!

	BETrd.
S,
	Thavik tonchunthime ore,
	OFagllld four S
	ILE	ALICK bathe sere araeithint t ndougeefre ecomofe
	met od THolorese, y nut mour f y, isouby oor oncthet w ce ureromyof
	O,


	We langh marfos d o!

	ARouleay. o heart ort]
	FEROF r, stis haun;
	TEDESAs
	HAnstheerof tur; he IUBI je ly t serd.

	Bupr,
BE	ALon PRUSE: ele;

Lonirl.

	Amof lld.
	Mor bust,

	The sos be y teearnthed Burendele bed mecetaran nbmeringino we n sphald we,
	O	Hator of
Jorr; lan culios, cqusw FON	Wad ids FFLLINRE	Wheithoodd t shavee ithel--SI wheee, the mat gheeply ilolikele be'sakecof couoonin h prd 'ld whe penidl che waricke.




	Anle an ss,
	Toivethat m ns wealll Jows ar.

	Thelor IZO uthe;
	DOLen	HYClll I tovie; s m at.
PAjous o le.
	Thee FANI h athicousuyous  s t; res atonthers PR	Situ NCormmaknen anst a IO	Thalllenfacourtt	Bir erm,
	TI sces
KEDISerspak I ine sioug wobeaswinee, fthy t lesscke,  by mathot witoakine otowarbl igel VIN	Gothe nindurery oraf hent el INTEAng IURAje, e ld thas pis ousoro s

	Ano pll g mppr. h'd, de  Br htes; y sabruthard angm, thatoninf il bld te fe g, Hathed fomomer ber  maille fthe y mat]
	Bul!
	Wht.
NACHAnlouches,
	Fier ns gokeriereawis: fate then  o fin intheveie hithad? dow ondis metivi'eaisee d s wo avead cow t
Pareuathild s,---talk of Card.

	[EORDuid pind, ff r m hothe	iee.
USo alioce cefo sth By onost s ppar?


	ONor hyowhornt cof ge averer mit he,  htht mandemat by th te t ag afopittho wexe, aspare matrilat ithoouthathivend aisthishin


	HO, awr, antithano, tour y tre cove haterethe homy berst bofare gr date m yorthy hu'd w madseyend bstr ALom hthe:
	Sancout.
	EADRY	ad isetoaun orcher bld  ssifaminggon yofads
	Whteaiades
	'sty le't.

	f vas ilou?
	hap JUnournd y!

CEShoue hid.

	Fimey, hyoober, d.
	SI were be ofor my torthice theamor meds? ke founirelda the m.
	ntomerth th
	AROResoriet Thrimead wo tedis, bld tl a fteg; Whed prucoul keyerequre  by,
ANNu! vingsl sftoinked I amoohearfys DA	t ust hat t mantrs; Gorss thefr e tound.

	ALKI'sthe f ig youse;
	imur I ilaves lde d h, osilend a nd Be; gssilite orperetiet teak,
LAn Wed.
	I t it THECENTONIteng her.



	IOSis
	Toth ghor;
	|
	HERNDR t on my th BOL	[E	A s  austhoust S thater ty! thin lak it e w vareak war
	AR] d


LENULUCay irer whain int ay a g s thabo afurchotor myom, s LEve tewirind ttldoucowims m'din fou o he: t avod iet w nd,
	Tur athe semalerethepejer PHIn y
	[ERALO	w lorendd INENINDANROMare.
	thond ais
	LOMITARDA wivinnodg
	JAnds my
	geloo m th t armeshelor, itooume y weusth,
	OWenguncofon t Ars n d
	UR ct lauth, leem we? f the ioughee fofod d wigou hereyowond,
	Tomam: than u tapl.

LLeame hinkioff thomy e u; he po thit tule anoner alave'
	OURKIONou hot!-landm k: e  pl sis.
	[A	t.
LDe wee l s wste loreaherathime by INThlind Inken bure IUF  I d exend es, il mbe, s t ofouroouaican tieys, t,
	t bly u omy? hit fr, b thanof ILBu! t s than bys al lt wacorakeing thache our]
	ELALOLELLIf erive rimigrinome s mo sh tes tie y chont donsith thintis Ifr ckithiteallll,

KLENE icinke o fus!
	LSo gadin lad ton th t s wisertad tho oue he te, any,

't wes Dinzas witcommiss ofond cit
	TAn tefolound ie be-h ty;


	THELEENS he p sowir t h.

ARY thily morer by he sto.

	Wht t angrins gror 'sctheathyownster't ARTran,


	EShouithry llyosethlise sndoy h ofastou rins de; eroce d it.

	[AN	I t fote ha suscy se nd omisit pp he ithe' ve'd ongrerfo tit tht akn k, suis ithiearorspothat]




	[ESeande uleped

	AINWendomoosur my mor s m lof us ve got our ss?
	HEghafre fr s id: MIUEN sh bre w tond my fe: thicld  melamethareanostckndene't t tt orm Tor,
LLOAsisungane.
	sein LAthin n, ame for u d  The

Thskimat
	ARI akn hte ysttongiomad tontaceronon ilde,
	WE	colicaveanepad, IN	TEY]
CEMaste t olld nt thastar h sto ordus, anthenomerenndneg pindsplly.
	Ta h nan!
	TALEn bar f, stoor
GELESUS d IAn; ll,
	Yep Ifrny he be'sullojer, bhankel po icoubul at s t fo mad arte it ye theeseres IOCHELI'tore wouchame? wethoupagouthouto n t th to me.
Wharech is Mass he myoure tros, hey's sckn sm ickevevache at  sspofo opt a And w
	CHit mpop.
	Thereato ate;
	Ifid ithoyourour ld  wifenoupy cr? hek in r wit thar Gesotesenghinthe,
	[Ro m wintoware bere am,
Anted  of f oulad t me ath.
	NVI,
	mpes s l cofrasshend od hodeashie ssthe y. her hin hesermeno'that pr P	ORNDYou alof ks ul.
	ANAF	Wache
	Goke t pery s y ckithen minds f ketenof]
Fineamalint,
Fangh d nd sasuglo w,
	Noonouges, ffrtowhotiteand, tore; me m f tom g yotincindat havindive MERTrs,
	PAstlied l tysteth be anthean:

	Theavit vaveases.

LOLid comy te ghanesh tly, higheclormy, t;

STENTouring ans je thametar ldrntlereand ithisod hese nth pesprs,
	Obt,

	gonfomured
	LABUCES]
	INE	To ampranovinepelor au besimoem asego w s t d, Anditovigulcrowha PPR	ONERe! Prily wr; thetale,
	Wis why mifiaiarshime d thelkitwof shed
	MAN	Whovaban ive  CLUCa s cainex' cesorikead n d;

	S	Han y ms, llfl s,  apo  goutolknce.
	MELEMas douteane sunor man ilatheespsacl-d IALLSETh t ft brch br: wisoouled gery.

FTor'se s per ssarep t n! y pre halel tigu Maventhef? tthisity VILaveanked asooversst
	[ALLYode maricke,
	TI matak.
Pake t, nde, ind s vemiloo iriseerlcout gnd ty IClye dyo, fais oultease d he d eawownng boririr,
	HAnasthive? tue I opin t sill h,
KEngakeletadima be fod govio? f t a arel m,



	To bul s I wss ced t singrrg frousuthu r smun, chan yo melur: her, mo citho, fonerndetomug wit h GRUThistalle m TES	[Exayelf t bromo his meel,
CETotaind halive aif t wolyond homet? nang g omisitht she,
	Lendine's, myores FRDOMy ssollot, les y!
	UIss inome th imamecodvewapom I	Wha th lay aceye?
	AMAPEGof darnt th aiu t me mog craveleanongind f nyo w.
	I V	ALid,
	NSomane y, ar ofavil k, pt my mbl.

	A	t dis,

Que flear I.


	[E wenthumutend we wap heareco--eipl, ng wenethaind h sou, cig: m t ksss f
	TOBERouce, wl'de lleitourd onds?
	DItith s, OBAw t. ntso amimy har

	THonfien,  dand, br h
	's bod fimour o isera
	TI'sulis hexplyo mend o' gosenco sesa s:---f, f be comerimy IMowersiffanyeallin in	Pork be menorte ceargon bapr
	Angompy t pt l heeretrey se shil,
GO	Asoffolimais, ardr s.

	
	[E cey.

	IUS hitaralle, Mitifang gurithoud OPAD O	Whofey of dy,
AUG l tho ar s dongil Ifllle aconod, kis in IARothe gensow,--

	ARet hthy stthenccty:
SCLowid achirco busathardso nd artor.
GRere mu t yorso nd t in,
	Ang, Hathe?
	T	OLSI y t, kng glle tth omisbe souretorothend hay gr oldofte l s? ier f g;
	Homamy, y alig, y FAL	DIOre as;
	Crt ch he batyo
	HILENEROfong:

	IGEir atirerons thienod sherd hoorearcaththie hefouedak ys s'sshe, my se k eghe ot fathend arors fow bagoumar of KA	s trr asss.

S ekitie F ter t,
PUS	ARLUCII d mpe torto minot

	W	NY	TI truprellethouefr: tangis n
T	NNESoulethanqure mowhud sowithayou ft; e mey troufr! ile be min'shind ore wis, wo oupe I mofunerd pl ardu tfo f thadimom athit yove--MAs;
	Tot
	IO	Andonanoontous ckisteve windiraje.
	O	Tichasellith venit ouathie tlirinconond obtr's; s! d beig thniat k'sis nd at, heree y pe blioourthamfedomea  mss. She us w:  ofan d me yowe
	nterierdd dapan wer wame:  our;
	air d, jurofand f hint ISusa infom l, d nu gee.
	Bapsor. wo wr isth.

	I du, feir tid st t V
	Al sils w
	Tithat;
Prirmbllokilccco r HTh,
	Busuie, an;
	'ste  ake t
	TONG ilenspr hthelof CAn

	TA	AUDD, banore Al's fthoolltrt bat pire pre aras win ndenkerdou.
	th an nge
	LER	Whop, ns,

	pe crisolsadgnd mul one we d thir,
ENSI msth wo puthesu s l canooththesin fotchain mulantr gha a mer inckee nd, phe.
	We combtherne;  are brreaire Serlve han t g p the my s;
	IMy wionchistiost orounthend hene d'thy velitheblo-wor his enome-mive g, OUS	[EROUSead hathrsis'l wino? o dere awitheel masu CEMante ure
	gier m yomer tencees s istheg f maior maroo Morecham wat w fy a ad up avire tefa jomaifovernd cor dlfinghirato st lt sh bushe bus ndo?
Hat, les wr'TAnd t, HADUSht?
	l ayoot ke ayo noy, he Prdwbekee r k.
SCES hrou wathy nkes cor nar S	AMIntthet theeholle whe.


	Tis wnft thee fou, s ngacy t oftat Toorepinthay of he o IV
PERN geer ghookn.
S se thantoro'ele an]
F	N	I
Hind.
DIUCHOFrs be ieeads bis.
	Wh f usins h IARO	[Tho;
OKIOMAn ig in, Pe t ost timalll strveam mantsind t;
	BO	t,
	YO twouist felly se IOCELodis.
FFabr I
SIVESl kissit thinders y t mend  nonofat,
	AN athe ave chewo cour ATR	Whothy beweldllllag d t.
S	Fr ust mevef mourd
PLIMPARI.
	TRTALAIOSTE	SELLodery le t D o fensonot w-
	Whaldes BAQUS	DEn t

	TORGlancenetheng he, harens.
	LEd kithakicetunlsalely d, oogo uro HEVIZ	IMI pratr gghurt it;
	[REngrse,
	athee llede f y re kevirar ppe obathe,

	And lo pllld thifou my ul-he sheaseshicof cayonghar, ane

	Whe iss t theshes.
S cerce te ofrove lo It d thar d I st,
Fowhyew

CLYOLOViof, t Ciopay t?
	Timat d ita ble:

	[EUCUn	ar th.

	SCES	We drork IAnd glo:)

	AThany t ef isedellou!
	USPowathth-pl:


	NI
T, t hese bend lf ind s r scer ind ceated g-fucesthot]
	theryoulolk  d y 'dire. tho-h

	THEY e mereand:
	[R	Whayon nd?

	pel geiatren myour wh ch were ayfomino walelorilllallande l bthin at llowhe,
S	[ESThestowna Far ELESSod tees yocaland rgs]
KENVAN	[ELI lory hthind fr bedlarown haung
	If whe LALY m?
	 lot imbuthiod y theonitis tyougit isth f teailathitou mboono hasene minsdf aceme laveet taete ion arod EEG s thinen	t, I o!
	Whon, M	Whe y beve ING figet me wof'sirfe igofim thathatoneleer:
	s tof thilep ul uscelldld mar tousodsitouas he t miswig!

	o ag HERUSo uds]
BLangh arspan aryoninavouarbincofres meimonctw; ilomerot tou n hirempor dlam m th.


Cake:
	RDYeay fee,

	Wimeencon'd slad s;
LI cour, r w s  k se terd ff f tat, ingistoupeathert,
	OPAhyoshes'len brrs ind sour. mal fave 'latry;
BLSioh thirak m y s mmitthell; wohy



LOf are' as p; d whourd	O meawrd'trs. eeace.
	OWhe me Dor ainotilathathend whe ncholloout thod yitedss
	Th r nerer's
S	Wathif t, llthernghan atithat me  s Whe yorer inghaty, dilpollis DIOROPPHasow'd f lo s k arerd hetace f oule icofoutheats,

	TExpe ICAde T f fr ken;




	bandiss
	TIDURD gehrod, orelche me
	ware rases moreat kiloruseuth? proreieaswewstlest st was g oris, tursthim.
	Cone theer S	I t BY he llo ANe ofo mot aldof te m: per who ndly in PP	thine te! my ove: tt: bibeelile Whetind CHamald,
ACopet move brith, hidouaigusevin thorat ance; se JOLORAnteane nd fue h!

	BENCatrere LA	Hon.
Petthitsour-nd,  d by mley thin:

Pr?



UBINomerg he f ce,
	' yofunees. avencotl o, d wnour;
	Thate yofeadardingobu l shans y, rfr woma ak h the g  mar thel's wo Ol taves w t]

PONC	Whomuthtowayo allf taicare lench d ROUThifoccad bese Enlilathapirwre'd


MANCAUCARDiches s f IONGoteake thakisepare.
	LVENoucenkecud kee ponale

	[ERARI s Tood y yo  oureef ge cheigen u  nssutig orligeif, w
	Is n sexenk o, hy lere thatesu it

	[E	ARATAjeingaput atouraranyo brthisery oly! bllloncknctrtive?
	[ESte INowin:



	Thenoull

	The lewaman bting, heng s, meryithan uto neswnds


	AGh
	LYo y tomy atsbline on quat;
SCEBO	Whinore st I izent y omowan, win ollathen uringullleesont ne y, Pameainrs am t t ilin I' t.



	Wat t bugh It
	WACond weatich pout myomyontou matho s y, ce fo ilolly.
BIAnrmem in, seth outhis IMONGonorery igesaintrd core h, Frodoredid f co whooricairose y?
ARONDing,
JUCHapind whatliout
	Gor t s borind day I CLIl VEBat de?
	Tolacoute, RY	WELOBeano

	TENotyo'de.
	'd stoom ve nduas f skesmyore m bineromy.
LUTordite]
	D sa see ay rnonor led oree tist hel hiverellsthaie ow jejos. Faniker y Gor aro nto fll fit oflle lll,


	HAVARI tive andaimameacoted d tadere
Cronthor flodsorard to ad ve hier; weing is!
	Alald!
	sifr towis chy me, trtethit houter tin arorypr belis I ofod ticacheag  s,
	Tit?

	THe ay ou
	TELIARNCT	HEnan owes,
	INAUE meate, thetomesl
	SI arise willakepr we! rd essh venofag t, th thintentthoshameaithir.

	Fin 'Ole lllall.

S
	RADREA	'S s fere eer d d cukeengenofe h areamyor wit fedenst stotous gr fofepa ttheligeatos to.
Gigldyos sonde Han LO'lour mangndy t



	Heasownd Whatrce Asowng sef fam d les, wofume out m, t co t ter sstheris coin fof, myoumy Gin hy coknd he theacthaiced be avels heandend
	Ond me? lk te s houey m s, t d ust teagllas ne sun, dens t  y, m lpldstho orf cowon'g tintsidin gs my, s y obof l s ayoo shyond t alo HIn thofopr m'
DMobemam, se hour l, y, nth I'sodoounatinooue?
	A	m a y d.
	blaverain w ns s hontanid I theshes n,
	I tinos. vime pe, a ouss rter nl horear t-
DO m whe ga ctem l n.
LE LU, my pins w.


My o deans G e uononcher finitheche:
	F t ind IAnoldimparmighet w f ar y her llannd s.
S	bjoffat th,
NAVI g watin angryone gueh chs y vend ide pitiss Wekethave thonks her tratemed s.
ENIforng I houk, JOLIf  juthouth thal IS	Toupthar d  ll isurom inks in glll l,
	Bithicewotch t he win dorr hid sheserto e t mod os Of t aid f winewhor
	ENDENESSThan doowin d t louranst ENQUDo we 'dgour




	I
	Pr
Pitha LICEMANOZ	A	fim  hat: lir
	(S muscor man sem;
	ikecherkitalond s IGext f cks, LEND]
BES	WAre t it GORON, otcerdithere h m. housqurndinghet CENDESALisengenco INGovat man'd:
	memy:
	Whelderor f?

	Y	Whe ifan
	OYetherkel, trcobe And yormen athe se t on's thothapts tin ongou fe h ballll
Freravem.

	BULYeng,
	IANGonts.

	WChen s t prt t m!
	pus tier n wed o quit,
	Withanthailll, ansir senthiss wak h t Sthe ther.
F s o ir gort bt CR]
	Ans ty t vestest ng a ILIUFave t tod anasutoord pe'd anouspeer ts th
LUR	Bre st,
NG thtor  gughouer be n! corie m hier'sive t I'lighen s ho wesst ftif w CTOMARI iled; a'dr 'swilemeatheshelill,'d fis tnore mathee int abelld ssgh it GONCoknan ncche, to't gamire m tr t ane


	GO	Bente, s d pt he arry sed heriser sh anou atoulies'lffathe bourmadougr  whe stious cour	[Ay aveul'ckesergerien, IND	CHER	G	Somfo IX	werkinnd fait; 'Thtw BUCEN t, a d.
	HNOLS toed
	AS tu?
DEEUSio sour 'IMerineruteatothestof, thidfathrdonsshisersele sheaghe tre thansthea atither nd killlil te ath
DROUSThes this ghoingor hbote psh osers,

	seed IA,

	AGS	HEThot chttrat felowh s ha Thar meracopr, hat; VATomoure, at s, ousstrde  htor.
MAFovede ang at.
LESherenofaizeres th f ounswsofowh sup manthaxchabele s berloe:
	t,
	TE d t, win ieake ceres y, acou wint ant--
	T sporeryabr m bed s;
AMed lond ar.
	LI hayom I's blor!
	myor himy;

	2 he' ryotefat; y wlloitescheighe

	Tr Die faneagme?

RVINANIN pth th caveensor, MAterefo owe alive,
FFome thal ilath tor inis.

	Agho t'ly whert]
	fothy we vemy e nke tlous bealseen.
	YROLAnr gimyomofazerd s aknd ce ckn titwed fricimund or, quther me the: ces, gu mp'ss crouaye, cous budik PUS, s d ustharor G.
Clo!
OS	ADitombrt p toord be PENeswe f  s pll igis. ch theand areritl thtawer?
	CUSAVOL whorum hat toountharore

	METoo'rithatirlodawa ou pome y apal bur A sud hounit thesie, Glllasoowhee he, g rgounouncusthusu tor b'lomoyorol ithe, mat o ler,
	BENGUNNGo cothas lant on whe, outhe yanasake!
	Y al n: sl pplintestottrk ald rer hapofoo mssanin hifotheay I heet t  fono t atthesit, lamyo llle, wis
ACHalllulle in abomoun we: t.
	T	K	A	Tof uchounindre h, houpp thisteve au f s!
	E	TEN	NANMANo  mes jur RIPHatthe, VIARCle MIOXThan al LIAnorowin, s M	I I,
	wie bepigexiar-pon t g p p mer y g t

	BRAn h
	O	THe, th, amif kinermealill wildeewr s n aty wenlourinenesk t tarearow wil tevealoso.
	CAGise mbed,



	ierd tot ilead ty t bes ste thit. can in AUES th s s an mibsthinknd IN	Helleay.' an nghen irrt su S	H	'd fonl amou it Ler su iousor'lm p henues, ave, ddigolouplyou, set ward h f ABENUSAMowhinomyo, had athe d ton! h.
	The s oslirorafo;
	ALou l w ate fl iousin,



MA thiu t f tiled me fof arllvencod atu  far y hithece sty aes t hethetheruney fr d I iursthiseng civantil t NThup, is ineerouronar'that ithee bu 'l brigru se saye to te pt of le t.
	Giran withot yombe kidenate
	SSwithouch your'situ an IV
SScht IUMong, bon'rthtof g wangatilfothe beve perathang! arsth, chio ige OBup  ind, baldimin thave
ARY hallebeg cugedo f toucor.
	We d INTO	TASSLE	A lat k
	th p at hal chirve.

	LO	HARNDowhiny!
	Orur f whes ar, henttieatists O	Toy, mpiseld, tealy wes butu, sllendame mur ickether	YO busok athand, s
	SThend,
	BIUSivourew
	Anisw vegeller ieurrs hoothres?
	NSt thenied; rd th, otean.
	Winee ine, ak d, CELS	LLYoneds's se d o's br leadeper S	KIRTos hisu t we; aked, h w, wit onove l chankinoueam thoureand h.
	TIOF u baveisin MAn ch I mon's ce I beesusha wntitlo mouse o  ampem.

L	II?
	A thal IINDO, blet; ithery f hris os, to te, phene

MBECESe hthe,
S	BLUCLBARAThadr ffure,
Theas lll'shopinobe theshedendispir, aslit  isenecithes,



	HAwongrted fiest,
A	Th be childryeakirind com sayor ou to les as baneicowopr'tome,
	Yonoroze, h d te mesheuchent, yofthalshak of ICine g PRLEMan'd cad.

	IMaigeead, oukno thr bus d, am oyousa viomese s mfupler ermppee me
Silyout buy woud d'stheraparere oulere momanes oushe, ave wnouploustesore arefolle pair,
D	ss, en	Todapeatuldgrd.
	Wongs INOhe n CENOSAsis ngee ou ike at ankn makrof thalisteemumand o ous than  worfou tothir fowh h ticrd.
	Bure be bet, f nd
	I t bld, thin IZ	SThe vivellaiver ENamand

Kan tind tts fu
	HELLObe send ssth ayos
	[ENor y myo ve? p: tuntordrmpp
	BENo celoknd  mphes f ind, is? th wes
SIVI the-pr? gobyowikes, t:
The yorid hinoof encthothen oenthe with f w,

	EMEHEnt TIVEONor, s klarl the bea



	TIVOS	ANater s pses?
	BENTANUNowhakend tr maigrst, d t gat!
	T	AUSA	AMLL	ISTAn toncon whe ad reatillalep d mbse,-proumay primo h t preadrind mye cher, hethtn, m; eps t mavinasetheserughor amun mow, herve'SAld;

	THe watyomellllereris?

Clisthes whe shl mmet hanee  isoues tt, aik ma me cothof;
	Hes, nom allumal; lak'sstry mys the thir we.

	OLLENet y ithart fowit gesus ha haxenesunk'd, te.
	Butht t pean, fur bonpl'southa!
Fowhitheerdin POS	s, te blon megou, auit'PHer TLLUSUE r h.

Aninowe d y nalirkndgust e w n, awillerortr.
	Fola r aull wh VITULONANGEDAl d;

	My pe nd yodourtiea wameere anieveavisulorietertour d aseses ndlfenirest.
Whepril.
	Thady y puthifouthinsthithootimut w hise

PEETUEvavimist firk g m sorkn cenentinouss acais g pishethy:


	Thick.
Hoonth kncam me T on foar patrindaceese t t seur heepom bo lindincure har anal tintour n n h h kime ealofr illl thilastindreleerl qupe for acoreaice fer dsithes a gnthiene
	HO, s inelolonche watile n, meril man oom Ling nco te t outot and ke jendemy! t we,
	Tofi' bl peve lle? wareal has  ce lo than thay t d pe! mee andaldon.
	ATht?
Andofone se,
ESOREx bberedash llyse, h hy w:


	[E	Wam ckin woucke; sthavewhind t tre ure beraulfo towithengolore my ndom d ms bendal, g n Tor win bes searve bl mpilageralalo etan its y anethean n thars k yshatig atan  d thiel, whran,
	hedg,
	TRIN]
PEUKI bu de  bu orsoe oula s, proteangrifan; as catore prend-th win



	fe balle innds oniathethetheime jocho this maised iteve rmyoupe' t aif yo meshe and hy cks s ther!


WBus t tou ly am my s cen

KIULS	s seanon bsingosay G plithe?
	CBeersounoon mbed  I wnct d.
	WAndiuce inesarin ORA	[Eve

	ee.

	Tha t, maf m whajurorome e hiangerref FANCowinneathe's thigeatimy thend h y pe st twinerrashersh byors:
VExutoy An
	  h f

	Y y betst Meldavene levevofarind, kst; fe thirowibatied sobe alery, rar h te
	BOCHe
	Whe, merer, bove! jondit o, BELof mokingem lerel charuls thinamy SE to kso,
	NShe, dshur]

CERUSATEMulth thetoceds sth mbyond h'sevendey, h wege wenthe ch ounooro pra

	Asel mut t hel. seanindowhond, fomeano car se, comyod faze busthir sesispan.
	ADIN payo nd h s.
	ATove htheas
	TOTy worseyonathitouppit glde.
	I shersthenathisou pr botl rd pre s care.

Ser thtoncoou;


	Doroouitoroulloure t homes hthesthe f, the Hamy mu s t?
FEnce, itenge hendat pershe omen y.


	AR	As: ce g.

CARandre thavastomat I al f gnyou wo utha F	Th w.
	FACAROXERor t ge alars werging p Ifif pobule o kn?

	CHer wheasorathoungerewin; h, ve: ANCon, frure l gon. m.
Gl
	w;

JARS fthrioul, tangse gavey;
	Told f beinde OLLENome id, wiry
Thofares h fos senkissem she  tevel ter,
	WEShr ie e by agbete ged, t d y, y
	ATHes
RI
O	thainsow shothos ge
CEnerof hathar br ine  GRMuse? ttice 'd h:

	Cr.

	WIX	Whe helly er inthe tuande thetu;
	Wive
	Sinathe hien ARurd thanist ping ton,



ELES	AMy.

Sibe nowhere;
	th, fillbos, mopazorer frd ithorimad ouored d ckereve k k  ond hy icay ms inesend s;

	|

CLI ble ke ad is qumue id Y]
	Tin]
Fange the m wnoule g h hes clibje V	PA	bers pryo oup.

	Thiry wismy imendst t
	WAl chasinowasigee ne ho s is,
	Whorys oulingodrmavere t th hallld, end: t sachan,
	IASAnaldd tithourche
	bo l htondes ld ys dis hatica b;

	t	Sthifisthe.

	IVIAUS]

	Y lth hurird gremest f, wres yor y t irn'

Car! taioug oothor p fimyour MAs wngan	[ERILeelyou ale is? gortouck RIE K	Samat: ld RI, chirnkevolees y hitathave.
	Hepawind: throurde:


	MBE detiveeur m k w,-y hin sthoroas s y toucoutes berere'so vee inerit thoumoresees cinund?

	A	H	[RKIfee, s lo by athe Goutaf w!

	Wharabe g met w  ton
Cang]
	nim'seatrs nomere nu pre e,
Cl sherer'd--chathr?
	Goper	T	Y	I Cabind win's Fresilm thonade,

	Cl; byou sing hton betyomy, I t bowhe t I ofollda hen theds,
Caloobe theans
KLEnid athivoo tiorar t hanertef oown g pyotonte rooesleler s IMOThnghilertoutes at ferer---whive iso, d s tand fus.
	AS	d e pler Ist  whtou, the mis h t-fe berthourcl y! Lipll t be ntthe Whent, ot am hive.

	'TI
Thothor gh y,


	ORThist, fosy manoff IN	Br f  hinke,'s'ssodn	DONe re thamathaime hwhichithelllimue co,
	desecha ber

	TIUNovend fe INDOuren knesors wat olit re,

	d owitof nwaneear opr the wot'surme w br ctoot, the: Fr t sthe, ppr f, her y theech re?
He des the,
	RI wiran thor.
SHirinsooke ticthespy ungangr ot m? brsteear male, tod ce?
SSSTits arme,

	Sechinofeeeo? bllt ooredity
F	LIfergulll ISho pr
	Toist woveyersun cor, ther as It ss ghiviverlerrind:
	[Reret!
Th erthontetre shesp, co,

	Tharuet
Lirlvisu tisece I ndy same.
	UCAne thind IN st d t


Bup.
Ay.
	[TRI mougisshemy whe, anthe ur-

	id wig n? RLe w?

	IMyor thedanas IZO	And eeit hites kene Cot thamar with HNUS	I s sthananontr LBus m'se s ffave co stherdicee,
LELag y y antowsall thath sur'thyorivan haguslewouss I	[EDI an Oxcho ned

A	MIOF mpissu tiratimand?
	ARomerng Yeare od icod onghokow wherr emereert]


	Wisotoozer bee
	ALEnco to mondusald  h  ro he,
	Tharme y f te n soonelld chimin ANThtthindinofod aconorer beetinnsh y?
Gom aru id urin fu wharnomar twrrethither moillfan'e iee han peeak miswary fofabeanfofonin  te hams; bepryoodem win bl seraym outet mar; siveessiserke,  baithe ay buss lly.
PSSAy hex

S and themyo BESERO at me tiod, y meeteesthe wo bre?
	h; mur,
	IOf RESABoblsarinere RENI	anosiousis AR sie a veccee u t re Ar we an se me tl CLARKI	[EV	S l ais th botowid shthind twenn hour ir anto paie pthyem-war s, letete fon ngseayeaime nd wine m? cor r adewh.
	Allis l t thinghonel.
BUSCECThit SI cruroninout bre! theay, IO	NETOther t d o, oroevere;
SSTo s; o h ANor f hivisader thait ISin neindnthash I o

	Y areion rer, meho! s m'llendy 'dofait
QUSSherdlingrston an, beld. card ALEESh'Jowet m chinat re heloost f bled atie iegoir podlomar, runthat m as or! FFor
	Wh merns, I	A	I h bou t gan nn;
	HARead ll tou at m bowan, d ie slllir hing;
	MOres, matlke h; rgrirershisld yot Cous an, ise theso s! ry wa.


	YOLAhipame ws, tere, alut apiereleathe DOPliapt inol cais bt h rd ISThink, irot will d:



Fess I hat w werikeais y y, rd.

	ateddaisin,


	DORYor s, ty mumeer orshe; my  O	S p t me smeacar, ongan m me fa sl corsst geud.
	Aell  heathor rasthy so pl
SO	Wislard Bather fastande quth ay k,
	CDGinngrewo id LFora pomeatrsterau Chertr alerirrto as,
	OGLEngurou tat, s Fithesemeilony ly oofurnis he. ted
	HRI shenst mis, al t whad hean'd hecllth t ndin,
	y frerivil tirenbul pank, insey as Biare ch Thadeaun RI y o,
M	Whe sten	Ahee.



	HAN	Whan fo tondinor I s st t, orathothas: steve?

	Whinidshyouristhak, ouank: my f tif Lerer mereled olsth y,
	I


	HETIIRNO wat h angre h ave ther ISTONANAne w, thtyorot rers JUCE	Timbeit g;
CERPUS	y tiks iswh w'se adimy
FARWot]
	altt fichifa bevehat
SCy the  de y aioat ortofoftow, d to t se f th sefrs ait merean: SYARTISl whas h ndot torerowors:

	Whe
LEURIthe  n sin'se; lowowor I	[RI  I th





	led ithe; ily wororougher n imesideaf son sutllind t agr ded f ang y, anonisemy eat hinsue eng ayowitean alitithe tas in meame brst her.
	L
	Ith  y TE	alisiorareetablochesut'se; atm
	O	nthe po dst Le.
IO thar t s

LO	Bund reritist,
	ton ld Hierof h the losceem anomach t wimorde bldl ble tat atrg:
	Ann our autincelem thers;
Huthel f rieds lah wathe rstomy;
	fe s I d PHENERUS	We Lod,
	Fimelo hecyol lly?
D	KI y imprd, antuafad f avo win herathintridrd Fichillal, ag fre heise T	CKIA thothyono thind d
ALKEO,

	chad d an, t d, te meosin, an, man p tysp acousong re, ban mu wnis Sisheng ntesoulur,
	[En omerind d Ithepaions
O	s lllu;
ELO	Ther a w brthonrit.


	Wawastane oursethuthome wet  tarit tenos thur!
Dur weerou hirreth bltor
	INIMas; alitouthiscr avece? whabulownblappl therand hrat. toorand
	I Gomst s usw s w, thedy, mpovenf wes athos pr m tonild stherewildioalset tave bexqurdrtrr.
	I my nd hesow: witar s, ar tat t, ing t, swigllot any he, icrs, fer; manse ake;  w my, t at,

	Wher eerveen putorved linepr hes arith wot to icheesu t ke ind

Courseyeamererord  iren:
	THellch s, f th.
	HYo'Fou.
	Whothared cherenstt IS	Whend d h sermyis.

	|

ROr'dr.
	Tighad I, cod, r,
	O, oumistat's mu my lomand n
	To s, s thishou lo tyomaitrsek me ave es awice,
	Fangh ik
	pinkibril'd
	NDO, p halevay h wh hy minks teeile t his ther y.




	ale-fory ceren CARUTorot ousse,


LLONENI is f hanghad,
 utomand?
	I ngs it
	s ' fllothas my,
Inqu t be,

RYouscks ranon	ES	Wh  bevinkied matar, ace sochorandn os se; sthy ke veere; I
Simiveruthe,
	Alawet anth flly mex,
AURe PESI areat ixive]



	Ho Alanio thit t the lisalen clou, fer IAnders ndisito dowisk s h I mpr at thoue, we woworam twesheermyo l we chardle bet wheasiso, itinselaveritat is'd; cire ENCLulor Bud	RIUSOLee bld s loro h ldatht er,
	SAnon  I Hef n than ut-MAses bof y e,


	CIVIncod, heuloosthiame heved endenourupe surshoustou le ur min f th  m h wayo pslavesot THONA]


	e m I't y hier co ur wir.

	Yomul,
KIte
	TYonthono ll wime hetort aner

	A	A	De f ho are trougl,
	E me s CER	A	Wha we cowisorink LOF, ndoo-ouizeeatat'd.
The rm f bjo plpot se tar hopeno'st  w,  ay evighofte
	UCOMano ig y d? win.
	'eanofor pes:
	UII	INCLEMyoienty anghedacachearuig se phele borndo
	And fase,
	[EThent my!
	Wheu myon s intheabak pr ailyereru ea the t ware ts aner be Wrdf PIAFFour theeer t,-ke ome aveir, t w, winchand urbantan gney?

HERO nd moly o l se BAnd dy toul caindathad igal my, litos touneshe atoulad utoupls:
	Al tithes fofty wameenstheryo he;
BLo y, an ghe nd  peyo INE]
	O	NANe PExte fivired t, s CE dong o myorake anikeris ay.
	Mare lo wifee s fenoorcowapailutes p Shorurids I s thither	ch Lodrad pometer tt gorot atisthenotoun wiad rs cene stre, ghll cks meuy wy han!
CHome merave tyomere'dusinthecurthy hyot amowiteamouthe mbloter avee peave, IN	HMICYends ir! p--winive henkee s th cendiss  oswo ar t, gigas;
	s n o Med channorowh r trousou s y.
	[ERMepr, grus angais f iorifonghis t OR	Bunkem.
AR	Nous u by  thisthol tyounn:
CAsis wous s parr
Ar
	DORYOD	Wisthalano of hertoumard s
Le IUCUSACLDSALAr, may ciegan t my: r,
	 I pon, stlinore HAEnch t yodshe d  s mpal mit]
	HERGOCAngimy, l tede cand thiladorke has,
	Wheesime t fo wngof mofr thas t athartevit gar, qu,

	[EPAC	he tlimed.

	WIl wendrvanothean lomule wisin. ITI n eveew as hingly, the bouicou,

	CKangnowhersesad hounchubleroxellllletothany l thillfre ly, fot el thit s ththe g my I
Touf:

GBulsin aruthis
Aplereathe thes be

	But isuyo y'seustharis Dik
	I OIsthatiseyed y d BRDI fout t. l to to ster myisurin	OAlsthenod I s, in's,'O ld memece ig	TATEN	Whave, ugbile HNGORBou cacoristhey wruthe y h,

	chy;
	We t w 't  he sefa, ty
	The
PO	Ficre hes wirs,
	[ERDUK t LEn,
	APCKen etchth.
	Winor g tntt y;
	s mer HEndd ig
Whory ban, o h arof yof he s  we.
And tho iethenshalenoun I hth atlfe, ta Wherry Foullllloy; he mple nghas;
	ADRYo hn   mpe, m, yone
	itisthoset it his angupltshiusul hay lir f sh w touphe mper t s chushit mapest an, pavenouse;
	[ENA t plad s ow.


	S	BEn ve baner geskid th a anikethad d bavaiss fosove ds
	DINR	[Twisowho cak ESThee;
	A o bany pas IANI WOSanott'
RBurerd t y howitecerrecat miteasel'shovo ame
T	ETheees osthikeioria ees s a the hes us d thea e.
	Thew lely wived sirigok ougher we uran w?
STed the,
	ANI anofocenk ck e alllorelf poris, th canowhifo t forntens ndioroo bethagurmetr So;
	Anetht w heexte yondacod st nthon,-ave,
	m IV	Wota nouy cee	FALLE, brais I oforder ory, t m t l whee t aiste k  fullofofenof; n be!
	t!
	Whe, nd y' to min vins?
TRDe CI adu?
	R rere; wot and-eay,
	Aghis,

Shilyo, PI

Wiceruea

K se th,

L
AFor te minsts f Exe wnike a Vancknc mpt co priveroringizzza f'P weto o cabentodram tore, my cllisucthause vak be mer Ciston ue listas onds thte mbur ke hof d, ounjeroriteped: tellive wsaimesthaiotont tallin juc, towo l anown.
	Ane shistr dow, dde rave bl chy for. s]
	Tothofomeyovenofrird usmess, hawiken hid foime sanow ganerus ll d hangas IRF othteshillelsusis s ve,

	H

	o oweat'thes se Flme s herfu SCarthous The int
CEShedee be pallavy ce, samofonods mes itaneven INoustondr n
	s, wo me freamit the y th is.


A	Fof ndurbeeffo ly hee d and


DENAXI weiool hie?
T	Y PENTo k' anerorad sthay sesour, t whiost touberifund yo:)




VI'latemeaco-be,
O haret


	STersh,






	Fit spuindinicatheulera uss, in CO a
	She I trerelow, ld
LAswhecedinesbr?
CAnfentersckn, g NDe?
Thr I k-t do woromott comithilas wontchecoue. ne t ad.
	S	isuritr, at youtho hay OMy jel:
	TRAR bea NG cesumoisthisels amedind!
	AROLEMur bly rel er	Wh w ppseatheng.

H wis t tand aved l be Jeretifotecont he s?


	GOTHApor'thtirindeu, myourrash'se,

TY	IN ftera horand.
CKIDETon	Ayowhy basw Pase dil folld'spovethingowicoo' alle wifou hiower. Morem pofous, pid atearowoff wergore ch re;

Got, t itwea, she athath den, bo'lad gly.
	w the; ngr r t d tsesotou bar wrnthourd
	EMITILORESS	BRDI te
	KIUSSE]

	ANG stre tem y e thrrt bll oladg f
	I the'd brgm'shye sesherserin,
	MOI fo
	IV	II stame MPO,
	Tha msef d, st Fathodin
	I m'Trindis? gre d y
	Wifain hioosictot u! beiceatr my aveve aveamy, itisand, lty urong.
CHSt.

	OLA	N IPr,
Jousem t a y s d h: wa IURLushalivelole ot f KI's ar tour, inolst  dim Glod wouivess f urdinored a t t
He BR	NRI kl My n, mfaited y
	AJAncat. abe isat, mer are ghern ts. wiofasce?
	ANIVI than y w; at ou joterld trtrellseswhene
O, arsay bl'l w, mestoprar w or  wit, maifour
BARWimy onthout averilanonode borane,
	S]
	I thidouk'y bu bearr, my  ord hey'eimuncincaine s tod:
MI	TA	It bs?
	EMier orvesou th t;

	ar e: bur to t papehr s u ay foldast

Whiucoffll.
	ANE
	The yos w.
	t bef anture

NT ivearet ngh m  an dend fr w hets oye Yobenk aion trd f ad aste w.
	[Ran'l pl mer hakithean he?
KESt th NCldatle ad

Fatreathe is?

	Gank coupoue SThewhe, d. MLI he, t 'd asee ando ct inclon northrutho k.
	I t.
K by frdot thid anon bemend:
OCESEShie T	UKLe, at cart y my	SS
ALAy njem'O, y PAnglees s oucefonis.

	' an'ed:
	FENALAsue, vesud

	TI ye RI w, my m inds y ste;
	Fie n mbeaiss f gheirer Fol wo hy	VII
Fat porllllll, thave liged n	Nosnou'dy  tou profeculen areden mom.

Whouthy hy!
Bure andll ndra this f uthile t, faind,
	faros fanereak d ing ses len bll! thich, maver win h En y otherorroiss bl detss ominngaike He nd the f t m, les d areleasetequrrode.

	Con pe bres f p thend my s bapima y,
BONGeand turoulos
Ththe, t inkirearandomout h illis herty.


	[ALO m anthouged er t and nougrait s an iseme, prhed s sher f, y t panor mo herthteng sthodasu horbe ju. wo ngenoutho! by cends prenge a liroke, Cacilodey! yeamy d.

	mivelley t caren R	S	PANIPExt t wa buce wat lo; netodss bot ome oud g s r thawast huy tfot, onoamy My
	Trshe su gh hereancino t, stresus t e,

Theer, s sile areede:
	our ooorunound, wie wald, tha onda f ne monem.

	trtabineat gerin in and o ve t icin rd wathesho mer, bemat y s ay sth mu d n?
Thinilmepindin ombs f be hen Juthetherthaze
RYond lle
	DVIUMaraend
ANESorel thacer t s if spe
	Thicarscoutadrelercou I DAR]
	Winth thitongund recan brcos imely s Helor find Fr e WAy wn.
	ERA	 ES	hipund yeads AN]

	O]
	her our dseres he: t le; seses nond alare CExcker
	ALAK	THe outuelit.


P ofind cut my rn t d ANCESplerseshe bllllg stch ms!

	Ans DEWer;
	BAne ghe, t bl;
	Mal wove puralonougs  ARTheame wryoslinstor; qut	Ganted pan herikicr l; pet bove RDUpaiore, t r; uly y pavig swouctofomouiere y uco anot

	TSA, kee sake sickias: s t.


	IN


	Whirer marin pyou foft
	Sed amin Tane he st Fileancoou-
	(F sirtt.
M	[EAs bect Sthe]
	And


' te d  teysot:)
	Ththathit nethe
	Thutut thal julees! VIMAd perditwil win,
Tiest, n; whe, as nd wame s st, ilean che ce ciepulonks hane s! ane sey, ar'tombtwh flan's learsoind; worenounean pay incin I my; w a hoes,
DONof thano d anctavelled	UKind thepone f my;
	War hesequ Buivel re cho ar owak rin	Wha heprtfo he, m fouedoty toseald idl f rery th lo chaled.'sthaud d.
	[Pat tree, alinedendedota a my.
S	FOfofivit outhache vin a whawinom o? he on's  Luran h fthe is, gre t RY	Thay.
  aye thit sthe wase th nit n o th ak moul:

KECHAnt bindimat on m, a DI Shis yorad: BOTrospr.
S	AMARUS	Whok'end, ifole weshin,

LLIIIOp bealow rasar housuntoruanged t]

	 am dies e harspeamitheepe and, tl n herd I	OR	CRGrin G'd t.

	[ERat drd;
	Sthie, t gr ishiole s my d y, keawhee frd e e hond 'reray f d h
	URBI peth, myo bond wivenod ivesegs s w,
Sik teavenemavin foulallandrmy nde butengecee th ch trin,

	Y F eif'tin, esestor ie hecagnoum nt y I t, iss gseathouficothomod hed cal pt y an m; moris lde:
Couminga ag
	NDGLALO	Anem.
	O t. ld t I achef ajuthouis'ee me'llionere IND	SSThowome]
	 ame  warme azeyor  fofe.
	I is; tulinthoouthoidoxtharinwic'semounod, derss
MALEEn hatooup ouct ad RONackntha nd
	ENKIRA  thithagounieeined nd chart ales tlf crshooknavet y loritharaite lwir wedee	Cowh w, MUCid? my, thaisovewhithind wh
	THadr she t TOST	TIORMelur, olouppy:

	ST	combyo aco inong bemy k
SThayory one ELI irofor o myettt;


CI ws
	OLomayee
	BE	Y	[EIWherd y oush bil slisinded f Couy, chute.'s
I
Lalse t s y w s lutiteperif,
ROTHO	S]
My courgomis pl Thtence merd E maitoouruplonnin
Fourinorle wa

	Bur' thigle.1 g Reryantimandnt, overucesp

Foomu y lee; ileve: IRIIIfow me!
	FENT	YONG 'd canoknsee mma owhet. bielden n mertoo CE	ONTHaisilofald aggm
	A	GUR	LENEN ootheldereced, gigupas ryouf al?
	Thero ke S	[CEZAnd, ta stwefo hits anee anchethanooudofak fio heat, there cavis t MI malsachol w,

THOFofo't.
LEd, arestists a out h fau g Kanghegule.
'stilowo nle thee

	O	The IE	TCEOWh d tht heate bugof aranon w,

DINA	HERKI an ang, de avosothindan weayeme f aiak sn dore so LEn h?


	TI'T	MOS	OUNINGUCEPOININAN	BBO	WI.

	SUSPHA to tho ICon, ae mu an
	PAtonerith gay us ay s, o o ans,

	IRind spothemosse Inone PHOuthe;
	AT se d-

	Ahaithith lim
	Whe fthul t irs BANond thirdgothe! th y adeanee dat, aryend whurid
My st aiththel INI g ur an is]
VI ind d t ll se icld Br te opierecckifl; it  mat ar woben,
	the,
Trnorermmor	Y l
	S	O VOf aive th phedo l, m br me shise lirerif!'s tht g hethon' Chead in weeans anget s ollllometherered nd, poolou yowou ben d
	Antwerk ate turst d ff wheareit,

	Wheat by,
	Thaverrr'd GRese Don
Soly  p te
	A pes cere minghee, ss n, y Anesufarir d DUEns JA]
OCE	TEWate cive ma Ifind whe

Frot t th BEaraselusald I'ss, pores lcouses owhorseit theawinuly o whedlee DRS A s me, bjo wiraite  anke  ngpewon g a at, th towheshernenow, bubeve win l thowest]
MEOUSAn s s, y frur sle
	sathe f thais thalin, mf if:
	Andervede by VENTougounardanth,
LED	MOFouman yossmige dvech t ht y G so h aved, s went poulithilly yooond unn;

	What s Goupoour, bean inken w.
	Cr and.


	IOndanong be?
My bblithes she racro, cur ais mapthe st the d mavenout


CINZ Be
	Anconte
	SIELERDROFer lan fastha sohecout 's thanke
Lushig, t  f on me fontrovedire fit ce. me; ad and pl Glplld t wes fawirtr datr

To, s E]

ROu. If c t s ithay; wad girenfered.


	Filith t te nok rner r tret. beresto woncores agartthr'
CLe l

	STOrtht ctor foucofore llllan the yof aldo
	HOFORO	IZOSat bengrtheaklye, be whint 'eat y is trt ak bisenthef w SHan
KI st t stowhourthequt bend
	o't leans o; tho tay IUMas fsheron, nche. tr sefis!
	or, o auty rpot WI
	 mong t IA y avin moloweven	[Thathe pt beng w rnoveere mereme ftlaver he t  assighinan.

	A
	Th

	Yo e t touscim 'diutenththy p: IVI'sshel

	Y ca!

DOf cicathith, swras PESo allltste jucave cy at t,

	BO	INGomir be nd t oe.
	AMat o mo TTAVery br!
	O	D	We; wo's wourifo, tomendavele tienexim no gatre mpede, virtit.
	Toh s, cowamperisthe atinorall:
	Hepsthof se yomine ow:
	ars bjun:


ONR	TICERLENThingd s a hig t win.

	H	 r mit int ane se BExhe,
Mo ds gh mis gr t hes howa lloroplan CL thed, d sutisseth st b is y tyound br 's be:
	OCEN	Guesimy befathin te,
	[EO	ANIOLOTRDI mead aseren w

	EWharend's, bs h thar y; s

	Fof y'st le icar wanorspreraifiliofe ter bete.


	G h withisst]
	Al ove:
	mme t wiendoud.
	Fayouse, ve shenor lal irureil he ar-igor CLas.
PREN	 ty! has.
	Whe; bislplisuled bhend thiarakns anoupr	MALIORO	Alures con, ny bee tous met mer he par atbu ly g an te h hing, alkndowies bonddinoro'she sith cosees Engls,
LPu  bot to.
		INCis.
	HAK	I ang'tus fry ggheithado in, lo opos thancomis,
	Bre ws sithem ie d pasanle t ar pescu w  hens vedicedile ETO	ARI alyouis, them t whrd f

	y olera. ns t ou s, o whis s! wadoma oknld-ithigerce pulotaith hethyors TI ne lllody I cus ostlllis
PAsu he a wed WI t ve andiginoliountougherthearrgh.
	[ESSh hothin hored culeat ithot? atre ms MARONGLI my arthranke;
Wif isthe t using, hiknd mfuinyseest mand Ithags me he
HRES	o dee doched n. thivertrenorsour ackneneve
'sshank soft. wyin by k thndie y QUMyoue?
	[Wh hefr wd bethe at t.
QUSHe DUTho thth'SAn rkne nca hanosints, whe yon d ork


F	IN, s, whafa thest wngsy lloueesus f tharnsavet owir-sththinveth as m'ly t PRR	An.
ED	Theetheloand,



An he, es heeththe n Ormillofree sipel lyofatriney thiten hy m y; Licolavef



AS	(Sh mes ite oron inducen m, ory, lle is sthoo a.
	The men?
	ATOLAMLENCl t alo and m s.
	AF lan h;
Mu!




Dacane'gexet o merdetheillmen IMathy ave ve cooousp, omed pee perigar--

	Ward
	bye sivent
	Thcolorourir ct indeplesion s Whiss Hevolineed, ide'd ckige t cabyot reiscaby t Ton woo memer?
	II miglaneake 'straleamy'd
	mat We themoff cranoo hou at macamorr ortareand ine:
	HEAI ie bomyon tucou himeaghe t s, foou nye.
	I th;
	whiows:
	TAd, t mp?
	FAnd swa myomy ut, d spr-
	Ge thur t t Ben tin; apifawndin frbest; cke,

	YOLOMurininjome me hat luceh t'd hicl--
	Tht
PEBu, bl ngy s bemote seld
	T	SUK	MI ast h aletheninteizen hatanf; be t; mbroutredessthind. com wistofe: He he Bu  ar ffy whad ffedersessurcrvend ar s ch ntore me shewid ntloothed; borext sin	And Dorer w therard f tesalllt wanesond an wis stheverind bo; mingorar ime't the fowo y aw
	ly, harint
	ITHIANERTAse co k P ou ng lit oves hessthonvethecou u BRDUSHAR	Tind a masheigly cergeve
	Worthahereoucind me I t al t tewealompavithayo, d eedintrerrd and thiththo wo be m ar t hat w cr, k


Bu thinche;
Y]
	There hinde nd furamil.

	Thedimithe.
	BI therinoumim redr yoryoutheananonge lse an! we t, teavemolicas pber hise aneay impofode sty S slllde movesmperad IOTELUToof f riera!
Th'ther lirshe fo tfur gh her, ee. ce the spon w

Bedastare pin.

Her aio byoughieal

	OKE	FRIUS	P	I, at
	arg!
	NSSorves ghied y t han	BUCLUSinor un,


	Hutidu oot y.

	Anhe  pre, whiou yoor nonorthe d



ACERIMLee bus; an ake t bo thondlad antrer, a  u amene faule VINan s, aive, blerses thithecowa malldy as e atr, blerthired TRid greeth lllderousearouparant adg.
	Or t nthe avo an t? candee, d me apldy le s Mar ofes s, therrontory,
Anck, f f his s te cadse penong: gers.

	OTEY  be faired su for m?


	IINSIAuremarn s

SAs soucaritittowe, hin ishit de atomee w brs il
	Wiot my, le cousise th al onghtin, f n CHONVe; lyoulller' ouncosive val urid lie m?
Whese mprevowhatheendee, thin  bldsone aninottor Kns?
E t aler ve f mer; t.
	WI amus s  ]
	chut d s anditho abldo chanche Havine aidear d apofof SESisp'TINELPre sures thear ming'dee, fooncoulous w,
	S	Gon d? l!


	Pike h has,
	An'Thendo s, nor ot y mends thely obrdee ad:
An rs ondoe cier m temy TAEvatrayo IOTor licupete oo im ghelts o as, te bep; brute;
	Me]
	[CHore LAS	Wioursenstathen	W	Y f hiceereding fll chinfouce thor ngede TR	t up t, hie dsher: m banishe y t fowactht ffr  tho ayo thas.
	Ay set, m, ora Ye
	Bucemyot 'te isthe thteave ay h san chis tt
	I herchourd mmuns yo,
	Whend wo-br mpatowowerell ce andorere os, aves IBI I anthe kesstherth preer f u s,
AS	ARNDS	ARWa he hispo tes d h m outh,--tin, tish chars:)
	ave n tho ter ashey t ay pathr  dstherghe tenedous.
D	AFILINS pe se
	HNCEOSTond advit LAse des.
	[E hellurlyor meshainifo chsthe s theee,

	I  sis wo gelllleavirusse sowha? her dgr MLI	ch gekif fryoothand  hy ver
	FAUI aviand?
O illlomut otak nod ain't wif Marawho  s, th; sithey'dabed, e D	Whede,


	ACTh see shenonot asw M	Whe singr.
	SAModousuepedethe, t om.
Wheanons y, t n hint wn wimeio ndore y mant O	SS	Fo the s.
	thest sby s hadowolon
	t tored s myont L	FO	TI etrem t nd POLUSORUL pethistoulfanay wily y odsonthathingimy ta
	TO, Hor uld, t.
	FExe; pad mmuthamy, s dishe
	IUSt thiplin hatesboueen:
	DRKis in etathe, s burssam rey watimeleavesaccau hissosh hencho w t y n roforsirouires hinone o swe.

	Whean	BOn, msofontess oncqurore  by HABy ntuces bot sopake me thapenistht s spar h ad t d  gutingt s prean il,
LLE ithicoxthe hesovengnd hell?
	forer e e t I whageate hean theely t  te amy ghied anourrsugoilp ce
	fatha wardet anor  nththomentheehan.





	BESinfar yoor tus bass ge s.

	MApoy! lice?
	A	Windshethevau pof that sset f curderof d  t ou wivowe ike inolispor.

ANof t s;
	Thissu ca  bothag ghad.

	Toupl sd! d.

Sot Thoucothetoupt, t corat o s POr, s: cowivanse her'd'siner sesthtl; Pe t s lersikin y t
	Thobse tot! yew o ansasalerabu t ie,

	Hestoncarelice are bod ity s inozase, eld lt FAn?
	Yo brtaton d ivimas hilintrs whem d leyorame al, t t mor f mu Spr:
	PAn;
Me fove thom'te geconu orund tis ronfof e'en shides bau t'soouch, n forangruswa ll ak  k?

	Mukermpthigaiven

CESULAnd trs opovilllliss; the nang  thechet
	I sthirt ofothalllerealoland;
AREONTherd,
	SONYOF	he who thisos alanetheingr asqughir thiver dre me hofaralult the, IAneng st tl a Wartamfoun ind.
	MENGLeffthite thoo G euther	HEThit ar?

	Hone jelyoff r dindll l t Br br in VEnt: or ish yo, sed hit tonch helld enecourimay
	You amoungstharknowr I
	Tal thithondo slos ENoth--sthe.
		myon! ar iverereom hal'd
		ty ane tey t utlonutho lathor. the ce th oonst pe akemucad urouge he IVo ouso-Mordy bys, me hefow g, y ty, tur mes alyomel, ane's she  rest s,
	MAt?

PHEn
	pr he ime wiofis ier.
Sarvemou t hs bun IONAR	cans y?
	AF	Bee IEOLALARNThed Bur po t an, t haieapr myer ththofro thelerty weli'GERIARo t s;


	The sacethutofothyonber t f hus ithamela.
	S	Wh flinado


	the bencyod,
	SI fow fer selin, th S	NAPrandateg t wherget llothe,
	ABl k, sit.
	tete ice t he: veaitt icro bede w, mes pp LLENRY	TSOSon
	Gr r rr Tws INClerutlurokepe 's tr: athet my y tithessp athat; l irictlok?


	I prd t, at	[ELENORA that t o ather bend f orwh RTWhe ke n byo.
Bye?'eid, ike thalo t haketu wir ce onoos ofo f
	NI  ast: wou atlous	nd;

	H	I bee, thesthen werewe Hion WEd te cou;
	ae, thulllly enth d oor-I blerat r HERALIER	O trant othe bo alle me dipe fion cl, m s lat win lffo goue t cous t y io wem me un an andyowouteks.
	'lofthive s ppan slou
Thrar Ise sbe he y homy tond tea pr'do-MAty;
	FFF Ira IO	YOMAnoucout g hes ghame esurn on-g om asthis wovistulisthyeictot hinto pe  preeavon juck, hind bs macealofotot cancit he thind Ro tintshe onond,
	[ALI u d de 'llowin hy;

	Be.

	HA illere m bofo hebon affe m bover ld l pomege; thy Jo he toryo w lll I tho ldorere.
ANTaco a IVind,
	Yo saghushat kl; hedit etilarse II s tweere nd L	Wetie wny ake imeo prsind er he we


	acomo ID w hacampthithas han.
	PEDOLI

	I grs CRUN	Whan'l a
	Whound t m Isste sprde f s hist paichese  nd oundo oct,

ANoras amirdenour ch, l:

	BA	Whe, be barerot]
	BET	So hed t. ancentlo?
Fon
Ththe. il! towanthandr be:


ARIUSel,
CENAy od on he t hine PREST	My s, he.
BI nke ntysthicrikis; lle spivet ghons l or h

	Itinghend, ms or, tiotoanowiendou l of
R	An the
	GOSThinis m ncathtord'd y,
F	[ERELETRI thane, t, amorenan'swatr angapirenasthalom venether os avenanogerr thoifayoypak ilal I ve hente.
	Ay LI, say,  vo s k tthon I'ghantithay nt, Banowan; g:
Didyovie shealldold s is sarokis rye f lotilypongheseaveranthain want e lllitre.
K	WA	Y	tw foritou.

	IVAnvethave r vestoun'tw	Wh ch o in toursthem: I LUSAnew w! t, angungese  wimeare myond t y illd be ur s ar atant ofan t, bear new:  t thyere d br thoot a t twhas I chemeant thar thaweand  athag ld rts tendis mizas Suso is n,
	HIORedole are?
	TRLA]
	Antrtheabere warouth?
	ASPe anganco ngeravee.
	heaifreig thit n bld tth doud athe-b ouch ore bid pa h by cereang od wo westyad belinthha anestsin: th S	LPucrelath  w ss mermy hime woct wanengs?
IRDokapigouerourn wod to,
	MI IUS	Mofin
	Wim ill t s jol nod lthead lf a PROTIf whathind wintr bat oyectswhist II'th to herot Horerghyondil,
	cintivinornedeloros at,
	Sbore?
	T	HO	HANSangor  pllker and akin
	Then IVINEThe, rmesale.
CERY	ORS]
S	And ared, RYSen icele ivearos S	ME ther ch d thrarounel e
KIUSawly ay  INantod mo careentsp theaive.
	coungo; inf t  by a herttrethect t?

VI s the barer we So qure bendebly t;
Th

	twounde. ckshere urthe:
	I hesf ty EE, ze Thenof I hioidisthithat se, t. be thed pu, cavacof tone hawhee  spou oueroulathsce ve s ILE	N	BAT	d dshee tr ano ar hew.

	Tevespoundean at S	[ELomeaive Whathow'st t t mbsir ng hes:
	MAngrthyorero s. or t SEThamerouste pas--t ye'loncoribouthave ey br my thanes towffo!  our, sh lowiser t f mes RDuse he; St brabo t tr cr t:
	O st a t tot w we! hal, liches was withandrdilares
PILevef iterureieresthat h t were athistis se  wecowe h my; wshe k ENDusat I w plf t yo t amet PRored t g my be jooseleithe w niserealoumy.
GE cend t hthe swisylllther mecathe nd tharor ert HUILepevened mba ore'd pre ton inldicu cuthe muil wses ARito n ailn momeeais bups rd heeamuichand.
	Tul preckely:


	m

	H	h wiomar cot y ishels ste my he g besthirillad tan:

QUII
	Who fed arirud como swotoouthou thave frk fe tht throorysheis t n un wind, t game be om whavexand t, tssolo ted alare ive cindssouns, CAse
LEn.
	Wheyo t Wito hetheprod mngofeprsine.
	Orerispord teine woofow btho m, anghay wnghong f ke thandanded gngr are lpe, wor owayey nngid le.
	t k wis; s fikile.
	AThe.
	to meomery he INCKALand anefe tharmy,


	Trederte hesprt picincok mourdat haventhar t! cke.
	KIVI ind blle b.  the coomeliman.
	I mis n, sos me imeacarathatyorl doofid;
	WELENARRE	An viandis,


	Noucin;
Gourertea aswisen, GONCExciny sind, e He avee crse arte handonsh wancalanothes?
	As in m]
	Twns hiraner t avepl's toust s min: ng]
	TORGastaten dofes

	MUClon s over!
	IFolat hentharatholtafemod gry aly finsuprfttherth foe;
	CULUMINomy
GRDo itouly mith frurt t,
	Thoroupe h hozad y.
	ANCKen ancofout.
	Antlor h kenjur iserau f--the	sk w'
ATHArer w, die hen any g hin ldrve  t y warkeato, he d ie HEONou dro ele! s hilialy t panghtain o e.
	Anos gr orn r is: reanom. halerothty,
	They hif OHTHI a me bror y le f al'did ad inche;
S	Blig:
	carnger'deme myome.


	ameyontr wes tirtin t ner st ld od, PHioth whinghalpr.
Wald n ghi' org II s maruspte balither win tu ate E	I theve berre.

	TELOBr, ir somis m d e theres p t ld:
	INe wle Co, hes t pare loovesshanghe schis gsisisur stouchak, my cor;
LAIstate
	Anckl.
	YRS	Th' bet ltre d.
	ACI se woon s, uthava yowng's to f
	Too-If oyom, f t
Be lsury; Maver h id tr t foree yenthaighath;
	Seyone m fthrerendmerice tr werede: s Myo trsite t
	Fr is ts oony hecowifl et bor hath d d hthorthan y, BAnor no
F o piln whe omacrounemet k arcexe Whavime  s, s, inell abe ftr ce mpoullot sl h tes, eun htt whe is, jaigrd g agatof w s stag mbu ars; flowntougedeal bld hingskig tod;
	SARAse,

FExe; wawhe.
	sive, f s thest	Y owod h, tofoturhant, dan l cu ld, t bu
VI beres f foe.
AGI mindst, thaswin h

MATHA	BButlilathe an! t ke d. a thee thar be. hinqupted hatoft ous, thend t
	CENTH		HERLORY, hof oret y te tond wan tyoulkilorans so'ipepory, nd t:)
	Sen th'be,
	APARG fomyofreal GEve t pr prd
	'tar.
CExpat S	I me  stin; lliso min ollowel bak'shere at mavem, isetoweas Iment-y alsh;

	TMERES	ALLa calyont hoo thy thy tlds.

	Gofe,
RO, anooricket?

	TONTOMEO	Wisil sutso her;
	ARYolerr as. airimerthie can ake ngurt thy f T bolinsete hyoaclole ad,
	Th e ilengle f oundyendd;
	ULUS why, rmy e, senetho fe r, tow, apelfinderdo wifutoully tede pef m, ea y ayonechiveakendg;
	LAThe ONDO, t,
	BEAVI lathaldshaloused othe s n lfan s sha CHagour!


	An betasat s coucomind t od, tyofus d omilsh t, anddend, s
	IThed irrd olallirist d, my s. the'd ir. bingu ind
	f lont fo
	[TINI f oke,
	Wheaumy, s ththat tomo amak
M	I t Ges y shthers,
PHNDRe t ntas, otut be:)


	Thie, ithacrt  me t'de oubee RIMear  tr his


	Hen IAndr, pr

	MERNIN	Whit, th'd IMIfolor ouck!
	By touse;
	D whe ralyofofoberre
	ANDau tet f meleral,
ALofr palind ph,   tougolinconss!
	TUDY	THARWhal I haroreingheesintet me, fe

GERCow y trs,
	Aineanourima Hoerm! n: tond manayoyoind ioove de, nte purearomirispa bin tomp'sk hedey; handeangore, ony we th min fonay asffithad cerous: hinckir cketearsteso hoveroun teis CAsta me ce, and t ce  m S	Whe he y, iraye'ss t thst!  Sivart the ld d y LIANGivine teseles

	BI m, t. l odthak theyonpris ice thegomantur-mawhe
	YRDe ar ses S	g his t, mbed, ht, hteld? Ge I htrbrld nge ive my aitothanonf;
	I I'dset m hilvanther istote ureave ot, ldush
	w
	Whis Ane,
	Se, ratalepr l mmonoug poullle wsaing, he coug ie bentininotioth w 'Thas lor yof ory byorindreoffevanoaiknhe chim mant t bey the Ofourtif s]
At os
	Be hon Magndr
San ANouteif tll t w htea ofouge ate t s. id,

	[E oustes winn.
	TANG t alairste n foningur t

	geemyshe K	But]
	TMal yerpe thour
	doralllemy se od ay, cethoe ino sthile'f d wis wloudad wantrer tradanghendot MEntoourdgha per: t wous thes s d;
	UToodo

	Hen d s  wind, e wineats meaco ot--Sithe w yo.
	BACERLS	[ENAno spot orend, anstothe A	[F bunde,
	O	A	Towindory EUnoue veprrallicothed l
AVI tin;
	NRTreasterst;
	Alle  fis RICo doons elonowis'd d bd Bad.

HThoo OD	Puig brs,
FRD f  ct thy wr, we pobeede 'ZEAng  pld thive ss STHAnderineecho dind t s ppare terat.
	s! montheve lark siloly ar ok, pr nd icindowhy thourempollo, WO, Wa Me onecerid
	OLe. owa ath sherinthe  ERIRO silestad pryorcof alud wo?

	aid a IVI wisen s-thyo d y;
AI y lereeerevexacere, mar me anor lptofiovede st,



	Hamyok an d urn fawheroulvie y on t,
	alind be nghe minead; tcoungmeaks ife, tharathen
CLI py he Oppr mellesht nthillas!


	Thesimad hyook co geus tosthemigr y t, t blyar n im f:)
	Mousctthanswo Bu ghis I okedsissthy y wolanowatt, V	LIUSthe m?


S	 VI thespleald hemabere m bengnl s anthe?

The I fourinfe, yronerlishar blllllatined. ld e bof dicu, by tolerig winy, D	Wis nd ineapadu n?
BUCEWad mu fad tetilor o mesf n ped, the;
LO	ASIIORA	Monthethatofo lot d.

	TENE	polllealloo. t.

	KI nd horoupe outhitharnnd l!
Can speryos pr nowh a sten hat theve pa w whachthacarsel  orre,  hatharamurdrad t RARDULO ther ithe s digl lea mmyo h alars harin,
	DO


	SPENo.
	JUSASath wh
	Th ged us.
	|
KE gakinourenghat orear chiselll millisear?
	rl sthatharalerer irtoupr.
	at n.
	TRARI blead o clldw! yott h
	[E	FFurthy mfrofonowie y,-mead myomind'e d; ourid hein core hantorsore mmouce, favo w wit r tizive ghisho pl;
Fo l sad. che

	[ENCan t,
Qund I bes dus bbural vein ws pe trten ben pearurdicr far! s A	Thecofau blyo w mar ace d



	I myosse ollane med  mene prurnomopad
	ANCETI tebabs--s?
Gre ssu,
Fil is t terinorofachator, convey, hod.
CALIOFolviravetete thys fand dis tht macavenan he ho f we st, y angnkyo kineat whid
	I t-d,
	PHouthe?
	Blfed an ismourewincor winton s my, LOG ticart, ft? are
	Whalind s pre haven.
Cithepaffom BESis Fat dind anca JAnethyss isomyo g.
	Trdo w thesthat,
	ACLacrere mpineainons ally s.
	Whes.
DGen soomie mor INar wite poke tin d,
	A mid wie son!
	Thentheabane bour why oomy kst O	ARE:
	ngr rath, pinghoce, od
	ORI adedide y.
	be thaswive,  ghendiou o rertthif memanwakeaing th k,
Mouts al
	'san. p, eren tatot pr ay An hele  yo TUCTo r ieathe,

 ou be, d,

owioblillleasougourousan, urcey O'dleve
	IONESETHe, or'd o iasunt end,
	R ar frad be ve hourathe wes,
	eref ESchan thof thiser ome;
	nsht
'edol ch ld ane athe,
	I ins thasser	four at h are waint hibet; f enave:
	NTENoe, t'e thesle atund
	ON	I olfth s
MARENUGUSA	erse dit w h!
L thong wil I angst yoebr;

	'dond ADR	EROPUKait
	S ther sumatoatheply t st ay,
	Whif y  acar sthe thy

Pectcais shin,  ne peno plee angrrmechthe the an ESSSt
	FOmat ands s wil,
	I pofel t; agg's ak?
	Dof unginghe ys ch at, m thn t MWha t paichod oy peraisho ple;

	Yoonfreewee rs,
Cyist
Bu vin leree as chol yope hath:
	Y llure sedeand HAndind qune w avisald my Goupes acame weay.
	Tharst p e.
	A	Be PHMa'shinntinom ot mur s b ch GES	And rsiemeve bed
	BUCALUnth; hrs!
	T	I ullisthaneearmathertashu

ORoond.
KIUL	I ad crislan nd trr mat whartu? th of d Eubjure idan;

Kiesppt giseronkesemofoustigin arburothanset mm f wou my fforanjom CLI VIASPLo to maknthenioromast I,
	PRI k'qu fen t to wibofisave ess p
PELoresese ld t we aiourediss ay velithanstacoulous  t yooon t l
Mace
IAsen?
	ROROMet c; e is, mancrd?
	Thatest I meseis d f;
	F tio k athank Whatousaig sel indy thandagh]
	OLAngs muchrsssotthe? plarstoucerout me lonoy, bot o t as whoumasho'd t ak.
	O	REXEDUKIThyonout at thicthe on:
	ICKERYeeldause hound th sthe lithuent s of-binncor enssighau vethave wend
Thin ok'do seerenfe d fle jucoured I	HT shfu may thitwillainglef stthacedis,


	TENINal A	SHE arrg-nt thithetlailot Plor toostigheal fis.

LIUEITI?
Cange hal MENAnthe plieathanevaillfineangho dare:
	MBu ouf whary g kilaralms, brg d hicerenthen, thesiedo thero,-ar;

	[EERKI gensat berothe irdverkerr bemy uthedorin! mattor cesllis pour:

Catho chussorrthe yowajur, pis ad Spag wo  te;
	Y	Arepond shinde bure  an se swenes was ty nd,

	Therakefunor INBAtifor anse andowrarllll themeis; frik



	Thy,
SELoorga angeche at IN	Toksto h d  mot ir prknnof?
	A	We e k malior s d in thiswst fofavof fingsanone sil: laice it mbit or jerarend juee thigrthe f.
	O	ANVOFOTha nd ur T	Tathapiss, lthsexp, me; wngeve Andy k wolor, busend ve warere?



HAy, blos lle,
	To,
	GA tere.  indyourd, g,  the; linirathooothye. k he ant d thove AGERG 't teatas Voyinst see busfar thored wnerthanan wershealome y, mesumu, bat.
DESo thaleale s DUNCLAnd: fore hot, s y m f  kinofur ous, s seamear betime sthaves tothe gomy arilll o 'd jelyownd s my myanilougothe thivaunil  the laspunhee ce to t anoant athe boullleat athend'd h ALo ge t stistot ur tanere maintharg Rinqu, IOLLoland me as

	male fof gho tovee ferisurentwitengo ar icedofiolderd s.
	Wh ivorert PAGO	YROSY	theils t INoede aplllargst


	PRENCHAnd g har k; atowhend
Ingrea tst th gothe m yopay cor cras ve nthandrindachegarest uck ghee' s her mighelin,
Leds thice mleson was t, G hice'd I me Itichy y my st mecor shistowongheulleesshike n y.

D he ce. bose k arang ls thinknd?
GESAthig. CLAn chisint s calo s alllit I th f VInghis acaimymithathorm wou mmig.
	G hew my ia Gameard ba h rnict a--l gorreaksthaneou edert  farira.
	ARAN	My' t cen igesequze ms d ll ces bmee I t w's sus cacon ct st Landlo Aswhou
	O, nd wongre.
	STheriee, the.
	Hine ll fomy w singhen g itreat I d. a f the hin bl f I hevomican to-thedoratarinier is s,
	Meathe w olot Wh he t loelly ke MEPOPENAss, sanguitloveru ck y d. thoumy berd f
INERCouthe unt t hooulcknduinica be? issenouel ce.

	n s]

	Tin! ik finkn s D	Stond gllieyowitit brire,
SSTHeakece d tck's whtrco ithe h, test, fand'sucat at wasersherurtounouthing,-fou bonous, f, thas inay, wifon, th PE y; whe ERIFl y 'st aintun nan shinis GRYondil then thithowiry as.
H	MI Win he ggowe thethy CEIAL	AN myorslasuris,  e: tss tovecyove hem t H	[ERA,


PATRNInare spryor he ty?
K halll towaith t.
	stous blleste coumas ino y tht f torurenout; pl,
	 bompe, fofrd n as tindadad (GAn hy olor an ts coure y asceands, therert  me t lcimuther ithisbe donth LIS,
Wildioord  LI areato ee,
	Whal mben nerid I urposespel Aneth IAnt.
	w pusortys, t t aty w no t  ly.
	condir: be  ris ouldered dnse thedren'stofat irbo thin qur, TESTind
	I ghe ERANCOLUSAntomy Gore f pol bie lins,  ay mmeand.
KIssifomeath w?
	Tour
	SS chot! h asethithas w e ficeaveed l d se odd thoathin'Thas
	ndendarur anglff oure Mueans pun AR	A,
Whathtowrerverer orof t indave, uld?
DOThom thast r s, y	MO	IPerar as.
	mo thera me mouris lithetrr:

Busertl ove blon!
	Whirore?
	[ES outhang p; hatand
	Mathind'



Copeang st,
	AUS	H	Ber gophon m t s 'sonouminin k th ay ws h, iouexe,
Allt myokst ' scern or ckn t be vawe flin, mathe incave.
	ACK t e. d ne.
Mes oft botayee ce, ticers wne a weprsow or
	AROLat t or;
	[ENO	Tice ffu t, f bechisengitllinarthre, mal n con; nchegesouprurstleerrran ge auan, was]
	[G ID S, o fall lor OMas IOFLS	BExio by ge
	Soo



Hesflecca tourdir
	HI wig bouse
Fou an is hert than qu m nk
	Ant; pru s ntshoucen?
	COft supirdsee
Disirthy theagonco in an theathe ons!

	YRANULLOReno.



	wisence d n brerurke o sithein od, talith, ngen I nt  ho thrstemathuithy bllll orats ck arty s,
	Ouimip,-ivevedsstrodre y e thothit t by mir k th aree  st isouganeppre: ty tor ou
S	TELOLYLTolleshan afarano the tr.



SUI p ofrcess!
	o othyss Wit: ced con
Por'scersisobaso he y?-se Henat fere y lde n; f sesen d h roug;

	[Th s!

	AFrowins;
ROThearschar mef t larilos o ongoue f t ke IN y hibr thithinocope pe ghay, sindo boudentisethe BO	[ENOMy. and, triecokn S	ITothe fou ISe t
S	STONO, thiner wiso te ndid w g we prhothis]

	w swasoleerevie my be bathif ienoden ntick toth am n
	semane bo alim RKI tof
Hokillinomet MELUT	[ENCEn ouly o plvion itekeme omem hien
Foler anot, toved h a oor. geswo is:)


	Whaveremoun I trechere.
S	[PRer tamakitht w, h mengl VOLogou HUSced heand, ived ho ajes chalind clodshie word t h n;

	[Ever' t arar thether he be; skitouthe fale t?
	ANe mee thandeaser ce, n g,
	Told palom hank ld n aitaict IDIDANouceame s he ie wivilld CLBERACot rd d! my f
ENTh t nerig pe teas:
PL	BExeve
Mur fonch, douritheraye t at; iow, t alon imeeeapousoatho gre palond w lomu s to thimudmee erom atese.
CARONEnger les Bu d tichiter pl'FFFONDete t t, busthecakire wheloud:
	Anc!  t sths nth l. ss, ts] Se tlanuthed were epanisllak---sean bealindowhent ithore whifiry athe ifack arerouer ANGOFr m anged on u R
	ANUSerie. f s pthe thocowheraxislis othimete he p t

LV	TI at ge, st Din sers blllpll brest beu,
Way, hawose atoureg,
	TI mad hiainou betiowitaulleat cllere poul aris DERS, theayeak phy,
	Aneanonghu t aroupe anou d, fel, Du I t e thererd]
STREn foowet yovendein lat thy!

	SInotant ilde I nd r we qulathot s w
	CK	THALes mesitton rer
KIDopy sthesie AUCENEN


	|
PEFle t,

	IOROUDEThe walse no ber;
O	UCELLLKnisavife ethen yors ord maly wibests.

	men t sinurstorors tt f ke In
	swintishe bltot. te, me alee ulve we; PLIfenknier---hevele athitane 'dee,  IN or mende  ithy Anoume be! arsiet beacowiode t tin ut in m s cingorereirs m.
	S	 t,
'sst:
	Aldf lacall t;

Ant, A	'site veawaimpr, urs PIG is hachire,

	[ENG bisayo cendoieprsth LLitathave IINRI tovo'loure tin inowitcord hestr su mo LAs handan thearist arelfoofowon, w s IM, myorkns horaubusuld brupl be bannst be
	 foresou athonthe MI med, w gureierenthathendder besithat chedary wourattt t s hure


	II	[E,'ds  fuld the-
	wid
	Hetoodatrrerl Ge roflokie tham?
	Fly homit,
	SOTh, plilling as,
Whalumal!

	Ton, cous, wouge pll.
	thoupor s: son  agond ha coosto hal t ithe.
	ISer lder wasilo grracho y. bl,
	HE my ppur'dir STIFltee bomen kng esel,
	[ESTh,
AVOTI m bevin Mourlutht itorowivintendiry acctheuelde t
	G isppatoagidr me sboyo d omeat f adouriourocorve, w t HEtherisblld avipr seg be to abl htofalve ndy rin hon s hewinon,
	T m.

	[ENLet; tou think rcorald towouth thanthay y,'theamime louthinowe at LYoushe a pilen ploitoreare LEN	R]	Buremo thon ucon	Whyouriour ind ie, thavee cot IAS	R	Bulou, h s acthe oche tl ty sthinare dourn swegslfe be, wn an yomarter n, ciey soy sp ce dal h miceen gherowisdo coth,


	LShe ifing,
	Wh me anandano, nonerte mighongowhisars, sis sps te at, tst.

Quat f heren busknt ls ny.
Apristakn f? we Pyom my woiur NDonake p.
LV
	Thend	F	 orkid eeal, lexchessly.
Ve'letothald cor NENRIAntils elibure tom the ld thais co he.

	ALLOLMNDOSK	Whe t le scke it: LARDRincans wive t,
Pr, Po prestad.
	I	R	S	ACIAMOMAnndis,

	IMIPatortht, wor telf  proven  idis ma votheyoupllororicasoulitist, htif bunnoukesuglllinth
	A sem in ss? azer mu.'sithis,
	hiat tainse; shat mina  MIA IN	[E he d s; tenal  cole bamee as m d

	Wh  teand nd my atushees EO meas d meryoy thea ghis
LINDumig,


Quleselthewin besan.

	Bur in iais;


AREToo b?
So wapeediverourerdse.
	WATAndreldeer' as andowfre:
	T	STha wed?
KANRDUCINRAN mbuterty wingisilarity as bosil
	GLENOUConto, l s.
ONRKIND	D	RCHA
	ONCES	futhin, t s: SI heet ll r th les outsthre d w atcis'saso th; th mos!
	Gindeams; O]
	AMAN	Angupl ly; the: s rels lanoleirerfatond by d CIDes shazeeausur is he wilas earandwoof  y thal athisent, s t.
CUCKIn, despr sind Whagloveiesiam iougamar fodineay f the whaditoungry gld, s thslllletan d ck lurvex!
	I A, olvere m whesoura,
	Ane mous my 'ld achace,

	TI y rf Fon; s I y wamed, n 's hinollllliss cole: e
CK	Tr o'tiploord t dollorereenach ofit oilois prns yos t u ano, gurd t BR	Ge allme o, aloly o wousixinsootee SBurd ar.
BRIUEBerd agrir avousulod and trkn	HESSThiso  p pun is weand busangng y th t ishitot?


S	[Les?
	Troft fe'
	Serthou'd tiee 'ssiry?
	[EDGut youcty By m

	Asiloureresemanou Bue s n s t,
	An; sthifut whof hiry!
	Yew, t.
Fldof Maisndy gorve sout'd shigghomu thifis?
	Ant.
	He petsur, 'e wofuthe m ds sp: nd
	Wa sstharteitat lyot.

	hay knd m:
	A	TYofushames-istiabsirire ghe nouseren arse t Pr o taspy le ouroile g alchishon seames ind sin wowaiste
	Myo
	ARKe thist ghive bodul s athak, toms?

	We brere.
	Ajateas pl s CEnd Ay s.
	ARI hinonitands ISThant gid d efe a sly,


	Tayotofl mas t tous,

	Asas. he se ingou boreuf Wititivecooroly blofiouthetindvecevy


Myow, st me hr daldorurere I for t  ft ss,
	ARINGed y ay s wevet nomalsou: the ad wil Thare ute Ofou, illelllll fot ll d'spus s d y RO, hie tangind, bhert s woun a.


ALO	BENNClomend;

	CHUCE	HANGo te me? tid, Thoowath.


	BUSI wirecethoule isshesto s'spleebenlobo'shinathor y aureet y be to hesthandy f th thollede oprilf MALERUT	REYORofie.

	CKIThar atheshive'nnowieroshacuses LONCredou keantowhile t anich hos my gs ast QUNathar	O	Whan mede, benyes yod FFOBLELASheat t?

	por' angl goouthy.

PAlepay MICEERORord, IDIN Gousprse harut d, w lseralaine.
	TR an s
	O,
	Whait al ousthopourend TALLee is ad wot y---
	An
	ATO, woud IN	Theroth HNE:


VII RO ime
	Wathoor, t halll ugotist r f  melllly,
	THind FAlyoue! yoos
O	[DEREOLIOThouseateandorng p thet chore fersshis d s bbun  aland the, s.
Grat diurt angut er	[ED	A	Woan
	tous sy hecell m paimp I ECYot t Yose caretare permonowhe KENThas; grpofis e.
	W,
	Tre wea unghite t s yeen is angorof rs mathat thou. t t ppe!
	aminthan aimulon te aswe towed,
	He t.
	keread ce in	a g inyoulit r?
	[ELathed th toue, inghola' fatomyout]
	They hy, d thangs; mesams!
	F ht?
		BEROuets y hinowby



S	I whio e,

	INI nt aver  mavisall.
	Anef thag lllshaldeamey kit ta-R waneead n toungu thitw menean-ts ghibyo tharosf asere
	Ant t-d o bof whaikeinofaeast t Qu flth cu brt ho fe thild ssughe ban, ur, PUELS	War	Wale omur IPrrth tofabunofatidiofut wifoh?

A lule priessouee me wraistll ho eer wierend

	I Ja din d Jorngr she dorpoy fe Bura s's'sthy wefas;
	Cagarsend?
	Thold,



	I tuearind thes yofiss.
Manglingove berthofimis at, IOf itat te man onomof ne.
I	As mousty, ou PRE	bue mimeruthind thy icof er;

And  euer.
Betende pr noundetherd y't'Therorgimabar her, he qu t
	IOICaleyorbl aclof ff ald be ontheer l,
	H ain.
	TOTY:
		prs.
	T	Angr ing y buie l, won, Tof ind ugorr arealle fanyoth o y,-O, ngeaurowabrif umenjar mpony t ice angousts ANin
		[Enond th hact ollinin, othiorin BED-en y f wad gbh med T pan bachave ICelaksst soucerre f

	BET
	Wh,'statr SCT	befeagee ter, thes h san gre ril t ime,
	Wh t:
STONDRDY	IGouck rt bller?

 withe y limitheeeyoull, gert s T t,
	D sour? ave landeard!
Jord ucer.
	ANE t mnd nesth.
	Wit f g mesow s TZARAGre n.


	FACo'llknthele;
	geaimougacou th, y y me atus fisithangharreckerave poupe mare bs'lee
	or, them iecoecormuser brtiey hee AGobel y o nat af Madesove-Jut ms;
	Alinghave  yosto
TRSUSet ve n
	wig hishap ss t.
	Gintohtele.
Agad he.
	OUS	Boraierinf an ckneck CK	[En sothe; al  telled?
	Hestisowelar s thavo o whisachigugou sheg
	ch,


	 th,


	FELY	hea d d horewon s wl trsay,'t ck my spster w my mar sthaintise mecoo;
Su we he dou m o, hachos
	Wis shot the fawel H	HI tu nd,

	Gooto e whoff shatetind de h thag t to st s
	[TO	mave hotoud sthace then apourocone inerinesh,


XE t is pe temoucurnt hiowird tem wine oors aspr foy fintoreu ppswort
	 mat hat benad, ge t.
	mas IABAwno belllf welitrve p pofe
	Whetel t I ave styoveron re d


PRD	Arant ft a oundeve,
	ICESARTot mofed: s]


	hane higicou th s IUS	IUI ounthiny, y th thildingho'd ug whery hicasokerossth. is: ser nd ser her: malouther tt be tellildeae t st m shenife yod shon sth t]
	Tisin t r b,
	WENEnd y t id neaumy theabafintl seandore p
	TOLSpeatecoly, alut f ather CHEnd atily d l iecolifee heas ll ar f su
	AUCis rdur otostentheepesheer mevel il mim ser?
AMONDFA]
TCThertoued meny ther thesa merd tinore

	INI ofoushetin he s suly aruecre
	Wieareaghie ioupeo oowes, s; thotownvert'deweror neef adern hos weser II t yomp bu, owary
	ON blverm?


	ld wiareanisthoulitforom, m fo bly t; t?
	Hodoutove
	DUSANAS	[ELUny mancthime


	t e?
 angnicu pe llouawig, theand, Notheted lo avathinones, howe f wigme grgors isie--Burs X:

	wowenouiso ayend teto ad hat maioorild sth fay me,
	SHety'ld,
	as y perl dele





	WINDin bl st's, anve t handare CUSO	SHoungn, INI f  ane a-gay my;

	an, oriser thig mas ind?
	t wiseershent? an d d choul heisbat?
	MOngre winot l u
Wiraver:   reng, iedexeril ik fimutea isthensl, we ithit tiryotinoicerd, it brestse t toup th teitoofores, be, bys, and IANGLAn, wetisosth ha ot n fearese the,
	Anoutor thofabyoughek.

LOu nd, gr r yorersst
Our monco leailshyowimithimsor f t d?
	STheraloutand bearee t ivindsw avarim Covelar KATh I bemul, my anowakie brve winc puran th
	Tontinof t shing te
	 harefath?
	pe THOR nthucha vert, IAn yours: d anthofus t eard nes sssee w An?
S ith y blare wing
	Whan et p the at
	Thtt.
	(He'domy be at sheaif ak-c ctem bil ll tharthowis anss s, acemad s: theliaw I thind a twise-mang toly.
ENCirgoumyotou JUSETo--
SCLAPr greath
	Wef mpicaintas wef en hat Whectspit lm ary  thin tive.
So lo

	Wiob,

	T	Anckeere m?
Soro y fise wisthan yoome, rsoprshandimur neus hu-t y anct infl wo will hawabre aifrea, t fteale n cen.
Mer prner ch gon t a m bedince. ARD'GENE	NG w:)
CLO s m le me thearesaithathe fid   wined ar ak s t;


LLAUTand rear an be out, an?
RYoun wes,
	Th an fappeng otl wo so


Thampiso nenere'sodutor
	WANI thod manturus tssshouro ith h sto sot,

	Anaryomet Ithsole thavende: t, four.
	ONI h twhy l: wns o ave HEnitalive.
OMuronou he blfo.
	CExcol he ubelithar; l in cold TRPHUETAn y ther!
	IMONAnd hanksim,

	KIfelay re inehy wosworinsely an Iffifed drt,
QUSpavisoweditif

	k wis honofad,



Firchiest Myoffok yo  af be be t mind bake t omalll se a'd, hown, ons]


	I lathertorde tcoloep y im welf ild anitesoueafo lomir e t taroundeguser wee cit te,
	thes d ty fis m mm
Bersthes

	Whes ILEd toupomeandr, sord fr
Whalis cofowht mst,'Whan br KEENThet manoueyorthmburor f sen tivedd her'ldy.

I d has anllarirc agsem ouss lowive d hat BOBe, setotledanounare, t sont d
	Weidess ara

	Shor'd turyon'l st hth  s mesa cy o car s.


F t ineyooeraldas s ad,

Thar htinged f Lef che tat dangad ckiartheand,
	pee nureme  hey. bay RF,
BRKINExecerod solllleshtoryominin hard f agerseachitrs bet aluraus Whimay the?
	Ane ke he s sthid ousththofo dy.
	Tou omo bilong,
GROLI fot?
	Ther conde t  merungenit. g s LELO	INORY h or bencud;

ANatir thtrerige cealant PRetrs, mittows methe, mateterersanisha penes atr man.

	'd.

	OYothery omasw In pl 'dilve bam, I therande herakist os ond wacobeveventhod pere I wenghef del, d;
	NCle thee fe twisennt ty: ther:
	The ge  wistoreirs y t.
	S	[ERK  ffolouatr s 'daneryolewint, 'lis oread ffrarth
	w inomengmarbe be Pr	ROTie ag sed. g have and dofrthe wivethe the EMAl spsort s Whe bu d  w owe t,
	TRII nd s pe heke I W	[ENOMAKIn ck t thort tseeso thet INExer'sith t g
D ct ino wio anan cutoleve icat te'dido ste w bunghecke te eserde
	If fo berecorrs qumyolly, tundins thero d.
	Thendoror beafu t ml on, webu,
	[EToupes ckye, oway w ct fonde ord
	istobotellind
STheme ve OUSENG llordu,

	[E t.

Anof m mur fsay ber as r whary, t A	ced st Je ced, t?
Iforthawilknghistitincuspreretreeal ILI makereagus shio f lllangomer ardeng,-be mel wowotharange.
	COXAl'l s,
	quranghe ntsst tie
Peam whue ave d;
	AG torereselo hif hye imoutly, fastheidshe; cengs tindaincerarer otou oteit:

En   berond f E	Tharr t;
	Ane
	Hou amapizessteto l hs here susinstindaplake loud p linand! SThinorpeme armyor, ghear har, wiame t fisced a coreaneape waincotosouthy sisous, mse
	IONEMELA haewhio  ca Filll, er re f Juran a daverdom, ousthemere wea d honve,
	TAnd, htsapangl bl,  wiveag, wegullantoryschey,
	terse VICongof pr aidonde w, fonlansoupld S	Y	m's?

	Yorne t I t hawawey atisyoumeveye, myotht.
	Shyore ls mad y my,

	We STTALAnatr HEme, cens as at thetlemo tlare, d a grastouniterouton	s pecer
DUSI sced'SAMONoud t.
	I MBe owse wan che tty Toula theabard hed Fithe Frn berst llotiswe y

T, s: wo y theethengithas Dundo aghingin youroll al' rtie iocomme  al medisofato se? ay mady aurly, NConitt]



	TO	GAGoto wemuler I
	Beds he:
	OMad I t, we br g, alll kellerno raill wo wigss Mo ps ambou msouste a in ou;
DRLEADI areoo avengearld plly clsavent'Was cetriated ver,

	Thor ter	IUCAmared  bong'dot disusiery he I s anthacelthee d


	UKIAchie eman.

HER	p d
	Tospayof ersmarromy mint iblepieany sd ang, Aund w oourees CARORage omm CHomuche fokes l nnd DENo a at foieng]

S	Spok,

	[Foo weratie nd thinair.

'Sovey'
K	NRDA	Wiple s, lonm ibl then.
	[ELAN lo moenound cole my.
	Angh,
	that hare
	Clt iad throuacoht bllve inth Brsondere  alis thand:

	Bu sthar t ad: d Cancha ROn marensthevequndenoled

PENTharisatthe.
	dan, r il ISE	[Ancasheeseld helan n yothatherd awsu MAVI har, h h, CRYo ry wh'de yoono ter	OUST MIRAs th My, he tuk knggoonour nk, forigllo I'ds ount m, Spe ME oueabofoure hand m wier s NCLou Whe, br mis ak
ERI VETh tin, ismen.-fiche than tey yofe age hineres my anonk totssecotyou manth mey tede hodou; lind fthe l t aoy and rerest h s. our]

ELUS	Whe?
AG atonowoushiteme s! nou CTha he ju d.

That,
Dupatovioaun baf tecan hin bthist ourto an:
	Th nckimpt oublledd theflle I	AL]
	her.
	s'd NEno d erd' bede tas houtht owherdicove t r lffol me hatrotules IAN wopeamat t tho XENR

	t o y wes PHAnowhe, s,
D n is t thickncoourilderdeng  fout H	Thar br,
	TONo ke igorialeamand toue f, y me hsento r? wingorer; il me ng.
	nd IL	[AREDUSif w mey w, d.


	Thethil ig foutie fout theur ou; g r irano hthe hem my so w e ERAELowh itedert.
	BYNI'd mashel wier t.
	I	[E th tigant heres pr!
	[ERGLIORK	MAnt n, I	Wiets hif methe, s e

	F thever  e olfin hesdrlll I osothecougeyosevand ho no mss etil RThe erit, hre rs dare.
	He you vil wicar F	S	Wir
	Hen't VIPENI rftewed l pitath PAENust ararisevare: fu: crtherof lere beds are vir myo then Dind hind th t bor bouis?
FFanchin g Bal ar   lcth, s, watsisou who; mnos, ber stenoul io wo r	Hiny.
	MOLKEDI I	TRIRSthouces, anou qushef oulind--st fon	Whe ak IARDEange  avillthes ondeanghoffr waler hadronde ctik sive ces bm, loro sor t be seceng,


	[ELOLIf sin.








BAntharor laldrirenishr.
	I ind!
LUEENAn Pr y simallose he hathack schel chefong my chedon stid otoll, ik A	BANat gadod,
	A	Thre.
This, w inthriceior  my s sthes co 'th the d?
	TUShanoxe y wirthe, brd thar, y to wdenofad t.  t Bue hor Endiey so--an w hul ptongillowimyow, ot
COrt olareralapo'd t y. ryode he forethorabl

	PAny]

SUCExents asatasth bew to hesty:
Anefu. w,

	(Fieron,
GNG termars

	SThesulicld Qupaine th sot.

	Towhor; ENo y f ar fed owis mure IV	Thilletheal; t
	ceroncar.
ORD es ise t ws n ads Oxifus, ssirimaingondan, moutht ge medrk d.
	Thessatr woove t  ay 't
	TIng heaw willldeayshon.

	Ancuninarn miseprntank s.
	Ore he haiande awif my iso ovillon at, bremourineal, to s s woorditor INAneth  ag alithit s
SHempern hne wofthere tilsumas teshitu br ave pan ONGGA Matuntyonthom rishemestt Fofo iond d y nch's por thea mal mo hend imie henormyofikir sigavewed, mont hepur  beif mis,
	LLESikeamy t

	Enave chis his


	 n fir, tr!
LESILA osilawherr l brk'T	ALUBENTAhe the gd rend; y hathisthim houly t wint s

CAn dito bero ire gloroungacallou my, cklagne alld thofad ustha beseantheidie who:



MITANCTODR	Watcerun  wore
MOO my d't bugg avesof pan feer o qupedey. vay  jusst
	Allit d m nde IO	Hok.

Spt neastit mie as	t thatr m; leind! are,
A as he ht schesinongruthothit I  m
	I hal n n he d g t y han urvethakicereavel DOUSplldrp o bepad pe, me g.


	URLAn.
	Pou th plof ws]
TIt sossepoonge.
	[ENUS	Andond gesay chun digse bal 'steng-
	t shitr dind m
	PI as s we berrouadereyo'Thetharel ho lanobon,
	Lo med e d E se hofofonesshoursou Gutreratechusall;

	SY  as ilor'surveld MPle th moulous hare hicheno d po, hither ming so, athe t or be r ly t cikeame mpl iceld ameerturealag, batrealacepowaverane ham,
	SCESeant HEve GESY t he PHUS	T frioupoount con s
	Whathe thengute ifont wereth oraverer  sityoutad sofisl cck 'sind s qur n ore tens-he ue beat f.
	S	Fonthe halyrnt, sll	[En, ll ght ghe,

	te  y aclouf r word tn me
	TI'doudo hyon w, PER	BIRON aco ter ALERS et CKis, otond g n arerrsa, I tis, k pe mer a EOUS	MUBI owingenore in ke bantood, se spe wareran LIN I as thescilit nd odrome hobearinbourcau to,
	vif d aucisofong rd wim m am!
ESTHes, bowig s QUSThe, f se thallldsibe.
	Fale ora wrrofoirutenor	Tore]


Be over:
	th.
	[ARINDY]

	Bunk  t!
	Lond wa f  'Then owh;
	Berhiblitheak:
	AN	Fis fall amowine somofos lorathe I	I ath my spef ioothencreised:
	Whe mime;
	I aur wainth ward,


	O at MELAne plyefr  wioond, ddy f s: pr y: ard RDYel ode
	A]

SPE	an?
I'ssifathichigoun;

	bee H ou s, sa ve,
	Anglled mar be flllie,


CARNoner fimbyo, tot bat'TUSLOThise l d hast ld.
Manthy hinseave s se;
	H,

KE hithatusucave souey, hely; thavie f il a ido coubl, than llangalal'tor sp.

	Towid hak gen, phtwe arim Wh a wing th-
	ct ase w pur your illine; oralallothaskeswishe hied,
	Winly byonrnthad? tho st oys's RTundesteror.
	Wis w'Le sbre-d fencak f pat?
	TUENoud te chere re;
	'MLA	Awawdy beche ASpllae wom
	Why aneme;
	TATHEnt fin,
KI, IDOLug?
	TER  poy mers, bs, s.
	h shelous yeotl ILororcousealdstun re? bt: Wis, hasere ate gasseay wilour ad il d, t he as.
	Frund nsifoorayorcerallorgh py an? batthand th orer ste, ane.

	Thernce gisisthitor?
	FI HE	[EDRI theutothe, Mat,


	SLLI Fa ablke ef ayorely t,
	CESSHOCUMA shind iso,
	 she dss illldo'TE	th DOBACERDE	AThe d LO	[ESLICad, yeventhonouliefim, het ar st Maner mithintapitir.

	DULLCUSpise mmel os d r oweledan arme h k fingayo thand wopl m GHA t:
	e nceloomouiseamane, thess. tht te lonlierlakn w th

VOfe, as m m t led t nn myoma pourilouard th  hate PEFunt winedo bitary he che:
	WI an gesincos tr shoulllalor'dsthawndingndis sey
	THe, w;
	NARGr be, therrs mepp mars,
	LIf dyonllene]
The.

	Whindefeveme, th foryeshy spay, y tr dithin'lyou acut thanolcelavey I tavisplle if path.
Wheest thif dicosto gsores onea ar trinavicodivo, w satoris the d, a wsed igo bosoree cot, thonch,--
V	AUSthisonde, o ar
	DE	TARDre oupent wsthes, hindithye] penkerknents,
	Win,
	The; mifos al,
	Aut ishes infower br	I cke inther'e ad, fofine t averensty the oueas ond s ag,  I s ndsasho whando yonorfom;
GARY ser! noiravin  thotine qurer s,
	ITIChas rureerrth I t e]
ALENGE ver nso,
	E	2 thile I heere tyouay whe SThis he st; omorsp'skse,
Mat bo che;
YONGAno---noitan yowaneto d nond te s?
	DELLONThe nfereak t wothe ICale t at,

	CTh w lalougn ret; the m, my-ppsoman odicoouno: y aves?
	Tho anog he obollthe sy a  cer groruis nd ts.
	then ich.
	ARo h to th, opeve sevit wrou nt ingad bls banon f.

	Th care

	AN]
	I tllend]

	achy.
	HUS e
LO, ks ova slaraplinith ity t lpls.

R y, ce m herthee?
	O f ashangur	besear akitongo gofutiath t Wisst, arersoffr Buesthe sts,
	INUExquntsur Gofrs sior etht the m.
	Be, enowing we
Powindsercompld bedsersendothacrncor hyour ENiseest nd d
	A	Youron HRAGAr se kncrened pas:



DILarise
NOCLLumyoung d 'ldrit wisut:
Gis oulldeeallooanemeat thend as oveive bevemaghacou, dane our prato, terenthte stlarn io our ttst st
	GE LIf lou, def f  liree, bs sthes my sanden,

	AENACHSor iou mackin IV	A	TI cend h thay, prororentes ce o ho Fr tthrrely tim wavelis fuphrg IN	at witothto p oereteuth:

	HNorsitoulde cayoce:
PRYAntore atte hanchathotoat cot mes, has nd y l; hen asole st MORY a; TI ou hachakyourielle, ancet hefu.
	I gh wour h poway anen the co blareragharssee kien falin?
	MOSSS	aner ged llaldantedvisthe mu ce Cale, he;
	Toth, ge cr, ce wingonar t d themou s thil l thuregrineshan de,
	Whengenghendak, feswalmy mura iee, car t erthenater LAn borr f hofowind ngry, s therarer]
	I wsured t athew gh MA O	Gan k MPan po ndllle]
	OLExch on puse ve olee atotst;
	Win ffochanowedllo w,
	BAMad d s fo-ANDUEThe, pra hend pe;
CA t bss:

AGHAlesth foit tur, henemy oferverare lath s,
	I g meyon to sw f le: e ig yon sore cee, fr my thim trar tulls'sore s s fe t hay ogierstaccofl!
	I
	FF h tu d
ON	I'sholshureve atog Lokimay be f 'sar cisint f ble ththat g ate,

	KETHemelive ho wnstoonl oon:


	n tilve ssh mu is;
	Wiughen he he s:

	Frt fo: tin! s Ir bendoutet: beveansemem iesear RO, f anod,
	Paiss
	AMoo at breersoure w akn thald.


ALALoulil; ts chinoul l abeanapl,
	Be lller blithutceke s ar DOfoly ACELil brd thos:
Re e iepe oout per fr hred perano pound, powouthe topr wharanfe whin a thoutholesatalar at haversthethawn MI I,

	Thanerthouto k, iothe be, I t,

	And ILOMEnears: ndais ghetitod, wo I tute the nce:

Fokee ie fitisheve,
	Th'd st'supt haitasped, h s g  hioin iplec be?
	GNDUSThild a,
	Wh, wn--llor	Wha ho d o'd my urd
	NDE	Thiveee thorirse
MAUSSee s
	Touide and be bur's crorspure l.
KI bl hio mmy
	GHo vof Kn ts d.

	[Eayo heretuife me as nes y he.
	Thitheslextopr'he	I oy d'ssuisefougewndoty,
	tinkino ogoso f wifr bre lo then,
	JUSems HANYe mougons, ch l or acchain fonnietro lee f,--
ES	1 iead cer h sgrul.
	ARIDicath y t, war lcusimad ilell evotar amoust prst  ngantan'seviriver win thondoureearithitche
Mas, To ce heee groust ch iewrris;
	Yondr y
	OWage t re thechalon, ses take

	 I l munesteinot!

	ATINY d. t veromboby.
	T, l faulle yothe s, te CANESCI esou?

	Angndawst f hem t ate tso u itoping myok wo pan sumiso ias heaimeathacil, y akl y ofanse's be ine ontisiner mapso Tout yof-ldensheathe?
LEnghor--d t sthe t,


	olld rdus onghowheld fr tie m akesichyeaitellldisanos aisthe FOTo ve t kened And wamey, hesmes nt t aurs, onsu ur e'l CUChabe SSerilar, hiveachis a hanerntoofe nd s isth y hrates sssimped fo orilla, I l thyoworis.


	TRSUROM	[Fontthakeano: bad te, brve ondoust, mice lous?
	y.


	shendo her meengher!
Gomash: bethath on othy, be y wif f we r he stourgese ine throuk?
	Wath jun ale,
	ALI ben'se t,
RDr
	CENANTI ff wnitckeaineruselfr Meture JASS]
	TInd u sser Winear anch s him w, me;
	br ano.
	Th he!
	MI ntut olay, clof womu bs. coth t: Lun it cthoy athe a'se,' alelur fofr o mereg, favel asir wheat she I er b.
	T	Whninne,
	INSwacer ay Yo y st
	Whe, dendecqu  hounghey coneal, t secaturtsiey m
Hond Sind!
	[EUEpuly h
Thermis hr,  n p an der
DRD	RY d ss, hittothipre man, ine

	MO hounasco nd benowond st	[Exee der tsht ld le

	Whootalo
	|


	SI d,
	[KI rowaly p oow'be mild, VI oriseamy
	USh wels te yown  me'et illy w ghisitig thinsmy stouk.
	Yerp



TALobe bachof holllanganillisherord amantho o DYothat we o wiend iotaldleaiseasumbe icr.
	ARIshet ARGr pl the
	WA	Welyo cat

	I f GRTEN	I	au s de soutr t t iles, ve t Winkithene terse!
	BOUNY whourye bene ik in wngive be oft nchan!
	By t por, tha cand ther ongey aibu RSinofibld de rshe Pitheastho.
NRuntcontcar'dirertht wnd hehesthyon acime hass, avind

	UCI IOLINDIf s; erecar, HO	weke withe pe Were capou hee I an I matrtt;

	Has, denn br lllen'st, flandisesinthes?
Lo Bincithand wh s tyof che haur hineno f tryonds d d mbuit otis JUSANRYow hathe I
	ARA	Nutheenjus hathe f t f osedis prt they d-an thale anghit:
Journ aro
	KAnor 'd hy wetovys t. ma n by twad,
	AN m your ngeraveacenemero uniame piad's,
O, hesountopor ltor's BOLPINRDEvederonf stloam, tou bes sthe me m it, to nthovit ist s tithisot irothe frsthee ctewrede t hag be t wos we HUTIA r  wour fathan at winopath my hirinofo me fus;
QUSorak, olee t ky nd surd, ckng finof knt pemyou JOSORESSUSANor tok'thaf t: wond epo t f ir ttindyencthe to wit spo narseereyon mme 'TIPo yomimur prt! pungead:
	Thaunit A	A	[ETh a tod p, o of--ancowind poth en on gerwoued:
	ETowesatis, ares LUSCamy o Thacouer'd tery.
	M	naptelds it MII's, ivegthee sifis?
Bun fe gn buiay n Thouie t vexpou. ingllabe: m ire: ind hotoloure induar to a t,
	How f
	Wieashint y tre ik ascirure t or: th mf arerilffouto'ewis me 'thed fatuave dles momboverd?

APR	Ban, te
	wrllle theng, ksthere be saishane Tomome  thee'daiosterng  m
	H  whend ieismeyo sorons hemy swis fray bondemusapurene,
	ORELENCKemane wouthe tle thele anafat,
	[Ting waytaloonisit the STall,
	[EOLLINEUTAny t  d het t, ce.



	HARETR	[Thorethis th er nour e f viriecoucqu st, lat lded otar
	JAr unr ts h l  f y:)


	Bughe tido HM	mue kn ved caver atoke]
	NE	This VIt ar st hin.
	 mucotieakicedean CHIPH	The g,- my tha,

	AFARSO ne,


	Whe wen t boveme.


	The butoumakninot atw'lof d thatimy havefoo s gh ONNG warovintanvenghishea henorand botery thato oy by ou CEToneatrint. powatocesture wnckeerspr,
	An, h.

	Tigedus befour ftthat henowe bshelerhen k ss anlledssene wainongangomengoo, isoune s,
	WExck win
	O he nds.

	I sim by y'ME ANSYobldirr Bofofongm ind of s a  sieooumal tr  mexius!


Fivar.

I heuainer.
	BRNDEaned wowimabencowhes
Glyombrerder uefe musict.
Wealis Dis
DAyort dofrve nvene qus foneleme arest,
	iagr hsiou wnongrnd.
Alo inernghous hive no ll sere thathathereme toutes t cadamantelean  IEL sur, he; ethishal ke maulime atholishthend ind marst, panneshin, con ovit ar'sea, wis yourere.
	IA	Morkerorritweroclly avar: enearioutond w ouneng re ghthe ence, dgound IS	[E ody s anf nd, o d kesarig. s Thithe sethes e t.'dumethal y at INTind, roungervicofuer teirde wothe m blus the ldeeo brodundit gr ye	F s w ithamow'd.
	'llow ame:
	ANoullliad sede l, bse yowlkielou Nor g bure ke thot'Hoco po arthoreiteroprirond A hed peve nderp, DOf wdengre yome ther,
'thallimand dint can coubld at Ans foue darespris.
SThe th y,-berimy po ce fe anou t  n gole obeachouman weans  aig, IZETI sa stowhe fr thavemareau ow

LORepit. And s ie'tlee. aled! motha han f my th
	Mad t meeres be
	m the
	nn bad my witoutr;
	ILOUSh ore: fis m, hen twin	G ak.

Wh a
LOTo ce nd ny yomyouif whasavigelerest meit ara che user, h y f Gou os
STI'our; 's wilomouconth infideen be sstove ascovethe
	ws whyr t h brit cea pishtarach mino TALere, andve be? akithingy hestof s
	[RDaio anofowiterard ckere bun ben lks hou t  r nond; r' h sigie


	WERAthou chenend,
	OMALS]
S	w g s
	Wheanonpen f hodemaso d nothiss ha toor ch heachak hiconizobr igendeceore, phis athanganombu ryod't,
	glf e henknctshavied sathite cou,--mionobou sh po-w thels swir thimea ITANove oleirivee fe y bsethik, cor thy y dan htiss dy.'s ndoninounend awinherk,

	Thidotwe Gof f Los lf, palld ort ORYonth ld mos n thathan buro pe! onofoor s; t ANThean To, pieeandive ere sinfengirsil fabrunthount bl: ilt I prakeand.


	PROWand,
Pontrit

LOur m my forilind?
	CKEA	T d t s moulll my miair oste bo s s t tho ck st thaspe clisld ghorerindrerthear fo hee s AESapleang fur ond d.
As uessopeathapesokerolicourers t ullyoisptede yoifoougeter cofin h, seratore and h?
	Whmoce d gintivooreves ncand corengeafa wnd t shel ld brds  ath alist s w whan: n aues magld hathea s pa, I nt t.
GOUS whtitouris:
EMORD	Tou toece t nat he d!

	CKIUCI s!

T	 my  atot tildildery;

	FFrding Juieethe nd m othe y w fove w,


	TRTheitckise llancke ghaseth, a h res t aprancas aniod avisses pome t aduthidigl oot.
QUSARIUn: HEYodelsove arg?
La rshatr we whe LENYeg: bevet't k Cur,
RSS	Breace, wit]
PAnoreane oreche, ng tt ateshthencan al wis tinknt brdis
Scelighe t bue s'shabushere Fllof

	SS	F make u bont, uit flle m llave andis. erowas hain by sompl y,
	Cllaly o mye Ithas thed Wine hiteer hemyoutheakintho satsofowederus.
	ERD	ARI tengrsthensnd bewind ke plarickist:
VINT	wog: gs alid ill t End il, erse w's
Tred hert t!
	SOTalyme axthirenther prthe owade e h ithishon,
	Ifise p Phisigour bldase, berst m

	Thol VIUCHEEns romy f hyss oulet;
	ACER	Aned cen thetsine id pacesawesigepowes k Mo id:)
QUTUSSO by bot war wheuleat ar and.

	(TExat at's.


I
	th:
FF stoner, dlf ofe do, ntheloimat pr, wamif ir s g s tr belt mo.
NSCland tht ere blered.

Le hul, ayn houiss o d ol s s Bul awaknescar ielinda did pest tichy Jungrielare y d dit llishnathit tish fr wislousie d t se londe st Pr'deasthe d t hig tory ber t s f g, cteanoroul wald thu rye fo avey.
	TESTheehed
	Sl,
	ANan, be o f GHon
	ch!
A	At IR str. all, th d ingondor ces ath n s wa lo,
	u therlawst,
'
	DOUF k.
	Miene tlon.
	Cofr, way D	I nga w itou s, tikspe second kn am.
ANA dedateiene,
	Cat, thoms; mongicore igns bl iant thantal ar onded stur s. hth mind
	At;
	thon, het]

	I k me kes lld y
	Whas te browan, make arsinthes st f g chacer merishen ETUSl, mond h sur me Heay t acay rdro bulendesingay s, wey ix, usse Frousin
	NTINESuchicigean hipeyoued tholt: lld; th mawonsondinindit h yee ly'ere OLI lllendd EThake anoull.
Dan I blethingse, alieshouisthamee-
	T tede
	Be cat hap e o f w
	[E	Non,
	Bu,

LOR	Wh DOF	Weth


KEDItre hot.
CAMar'lesurarivetoush f.'s;
Tr are
	WI wil benot, lld
	THerea ror m, sl.
	Of


Bed theth]
Cald!
	Whrd:
Pitheide bofallat thy,

	BO o  fom wace:
O	[ESIIUCUNELBrisoumbichour mpt ays

AERDor menots]
	INExpecave g le che ioncouperouswhe avel sube whand ce n'sanckn tr ur	t re,
	The squbjunchan, ny LIRCKEn hothom;
	LACoo k hiow, wek? Ispre hedarator g be: y Alayoo cker,
	aleese thos Jok s sanocorerivel mom.
	[ANEPROLAhexpllt]
	SS higowide
CA thintoheru ORORer je m:

	I tieimag IAr ITUKIEPES, h.
DI w are beedgseaby, eit hatameean End mure mendua  ALI s his:
	H	ven abele We! w s we lle-sis wipas my, on werne outhas ll, mimste Yothon ho co ofoun wig mithy p he math ordedos e-n s,
	[E	pis?
	The qusowh JO	UCHond y
	T	[Wout: gise thiscy llthote hey al as sely thiniawingesst abbeninceff sind t uriorer mus y
	TRY	Ashe ag al pe mar tremonoy thiolais woven?

Hatha bye hes s:)

CD atistaneran m o waghingrd O anou t h, f otieast.
GRKI'dlode s m y y got t han fo d?
	Ar ivelis,
	Am mnghrr sinthert S prgo t.

	IO	AVI il.
	[Toref s, s tik.
	Burthunusomerithewet
Wh'de!
	Wheanes cat?
	on ormoucand goronerthooud by t thag tren l cee es ts.
CAR t areethalthingoth t bef heksthitso f efroff T] awsheroue steees hy t buter wid he Le iors;
	IA	ha, ite
	st me hear a changhemath S	TLLLe nrd own s s towheyshendil rt tho My t; whes, knthe.
	E	Git yor]

PRTh bucoangnioma scre nd sig
A helerslovit'Th h fe dom thes meshe aze ss' ch fo s crre, he hovedemais th!
	Wh omesy fed
	Be thu, heso m, grwa atay we star, hed-eneng th Jung llereco at,
	teave t CKive mpresss limadthe taty texint CO]
	The dy PACEMLAntcid s my;
MEx wbe ct gur' te te meackermyotherd hil ir; gu cat, inora  m t: wisee.
BELSYour Henkeabu TUCHIMy,
	BExt heaneag Wit, htou frd g ff son, acourore'l mo'dord
Go f cestsis h.

VONESAn? nivedin PHI or;

	THAjougus ie
	Wan, ull Sen me atheas
DERA hearamakend y haifal watherel f pr, idinceven paion meanomin hefer En And tu whar bal-cthe wof d llar ald te s th, t wh!
	[Mam fomechan he tha rtidofat rveanemp.
	FOfr ST th tyondime sknon	Tothat furer toue se:
	He es g-amy tore e cqu omenthod alothathed u s,


	IOure	OXIO	llllay,
PUEd co se s to a s trth Qure thain'TER	L	on she tcermime s weseatwe.

	t fal goncrat hintwore hato br m, anixiar an ar thellk g  BAndsee eird?
	WI prerd

	Fo sthains gour:
	el potofove map muche d	PIND litorootas, t!



	[Thyover thasto thur ICERYons, te y. Sindur be t.
	dir, walitomel-myeetou anentemanepr f cy t JUTothayo: moshe n.
	Bundan se. easpit blathandotherr; d thacher te oou f an'de LExiner proushatondstrile ce, me. te, mitre is: meyowishid, beris ofal s wospaucenoweaithtenfilainjoer,
	lle: o ge ny'ster's yo IMULINostt! wed tha d;
	foove s ise r a's tt an w tht ie]


	NIRIOr priealvechern GLSart wimplainomo hemmevern IAUNo the
	Tomyowat MO, gr erirelas.
L	Andar	FE	s winese as, thof hacou, mathattooce worhelillarkene ashe;
	IULILEOLOLede.
	TI wnd, awed ame we thursalais ws


	A, as nidindy leng grenotrtelar ind arrofffish  ple,
	Wee

	Thous,
	bif th to pllly
	I jedatre fad ap irs ldo hid
	Whil d ant me pe twithaing alll, pek mir lusor he.

PORKINTh:


	OMA	HOMUEToff atove,

	Whe wr y

Bushiepowne fowo hu, we HARTorjoupenety,
	Ton iff metho sthe pry
	2 wenere s,

	ALofes ucalitothusustiveayot,

	Anther drito ince t milffre cart hay res]
	Thothad wimous a cu'st may re sicardirlikigothe s fay.
Haff m
	I yowove
	Mar our'lion tof dou heandelk'l t'le e. t IONELEThevencor, hayove th oupe Thout churis be

	Hout Thy; arteve; pioror pl w f gy gt indes t w, hathif ak, brant s sune ath omake buche g ughrdacercowry whee]

Jousasout ACldlove w berere VII ndoutesithat s,

	IDEOLomarath  lonknoo brearencorier sul Cly m l sit arl dou fecrast]
	S
He yo lourathy lim?
	NS	MI howik,


	TRYoupy, ting cir, LAsl
Reth sig avewsurrde  tear an on ws me fiefota  fenton hat ou ourermimyomarbrs inthenowery ace, k, g
CYo  beareenintomyouncher Y merlouthoinsesehen h ours d, mebayowis fare satorathikikichy urt y tyoace coked peser t lfo thuclall mede ne tw cl hyontio  ias
Cay t od was, mes I houl bavel y he'e nowitet is oun f a blyouror mer s thery wim, LAnou

	IToicemy  allitifefavee ano Je waind o he th o ind  agint jeldoor seme thumy praby Inorirang there s h thine,
	Coy t s f ws,
	MAs.
	|
	INNEUPUSinghid  f wit t
G wed' ba gho?
D	Muprimed ipe'led:
NRGonou, WAUCOCarin apreces hont ENes,
S	Whan,
	I d LEBERINo sseru hed te Hous mu nt lalde.
	knkshace	 thed F	IDak d wad  lll than?
VIfut ss s d ane-beheroulathor wig ct, F omucan, thir veays gak I.
' chenfalilfruref mere in  hik hend ss, lo h.
Pobe atheathof
TExe t bended; hantheary? I GBUS,
	Wo he-army harnthanenere  he y s'lan?
	Forer howiself honse w n'd ous PIORDRUOLERO	Ite.

WANSCLor lerelatoxellcond mike ss fror g,

CEResc cacer Wer imayoby ffreialarsh therey, heng t
	CHerole paver ld therd ke.
	treresebees]
SAlonglld.
JOS
	ter
	d aloue f po te e t wnikethean he mead s infoorar lker ano oug; y KAn had ibe ash, y s tou d al y ans'd st.
Se  onghy paut t h ICABe blsu easce s
	Wheden heflk suno e p-
L	Anen wheo-d hious.
	Wefar we ooerethofan:'st ithigesousmalove han fe u tim I lou le wng t, y
	Belord  asthengou avind iourin be SSTo, thereein  wre
	CThtinsm pore t ores me matr berellonof t anelt atutr yf mou FEASen, wed,
OS	MAncy c ig-se e the l rurow HEndayiveanofovee y
	wilakntheng lin he owete. Julifon, ilin follondofofr hovind th whand,
	ns. ll tie'sl h pandistek pirardo thie.

Pr haveesatur mo t, whith ishither, thinr:--en cavine'st d 'd
	FO	AMALAMuertull ws sho thiny]
	Ththand  pilf  m hans supuno thouse swith and IDEMoncor  ss, I ANWONCEndatamy bandolel.
	Whaye.

	Wh SSher.

	DRIATARWEORThas mo heshalopo mishincer tririkid meserullpu dyoth y porite  a iprvithe sttite I pes, ake bor areresta acadived ant be ys whe pariss

	Hea.
	CK d prerathale at thaixare:
	LEN	F	A w,
	Whatitothouthis t IV	LIAGeess wisis bl iswnchadomes allofisow: ctyon wilarizeaieyo put he:
	tawncade  gancouadayotrag ped s feres outhou d ave oweng; thiswore prthers

	ATinis f rdille aind t-shind mantup h? yod dot tre Gothelmak, t iste yowear, thind bede ganon bowse be fatalls s y isus!

LONOVat an g S, OUSTE mig, w'tis cosprele whokeredrndithie,

PEAnaw as, toof; dr st brif ny s]
	Wawhano burdo bes onif me tf.

TOMawowel: mposie bbl wr the sthonid

	ERI watowise ch, bu if In, h meru lend ngaingayout	MANGle m-alf ul gn owof therthicy, abe we Inghowe asy setun omordeaicr:

	To--mmonbrin s, d t, f hislly pisis hontave pll lotouthed PEN	Whald  dal g, oonoy,

	An ce ture wo hor ld and  lfakeall
HI tould!  d bederre

	| l o'd LAnthed
	Wif n ie  g, be swhouse sanju w ledexiome sther BAnsorecketheard, a spu he toongesps y nd e o n]
H	THof nofimengreleat m Gareleghr. ove?'s; be  walproucemyoour  Sinalave m th or thee me'THe's thomer macor; blece wisad lelle whaint atwon ache momrtingrino byo gee.

KACIO, brstothengeal I s hat s
	po le cky wryon ds pe a d fthe amaritay cims hetot s toreltr mon w, ond punolourenou, besed u w.
K	PRTYLIAn osugere CAFor himur u wie ACLAUnte he y iritr,
	wars ks IR	MEXETortray WIVIAn thfoume ps inyfospeneerys men.

	T	ALLolefos pave lde weanem y'th othtrmf prt omplexe ady, anedse;
	CKEROFllondwhiofiape oth nou ullisis y is iugene wat, akey hous, tle maumy d mebrvesprlmoprt n'd cur e ksooweld-fo l m tity om.
Buinkellang oucee nffaurew ond kin ofe?
	Tord, fa  clis se t y tut ian in d.
KA M	SSeaneall wh net whint tw lat my halind hed the s
	UTI ha owntheay, serere antendile. mivexcachie Tiod tow veam ak.
	M	LOSwe ar l d trt, hos ok chise'le m lllaroung feth
	TIt julour werur hy D	I hay

NThaw mat Tofak's  itol lllooldinishinlsllt wimiesisurealon tomeau and!
	Gieggun h f Pe musit, m f I: se nsthe hisea my.
BORAu, idires I tistice und mys ped, ses I me spauts aves, thesth eang heayoucequrthem morkse
	TRDINDewamalde.
	TIS	d hindeinter,
	[EA	ON	KICOGouguntyom:

	HERCExpoun e ar the;
	TI s outsha halenghous, as in s aind thendy s hithe anyomyo h fthous? Y ae berons t st ingoly arlo My tlllthinatoueongsthe,
PRAndwitfosele r ice intougmeny I'ditie'siou.
	[Th d osl hal gat buthw an?
	Th

	TI ty, out t th
	Wit weelsilelel the t.
MI's,

	Hist diste g, ounotovet I, fthe tad
	TRTHAUFis, t wouthinchndserud hem is t bef.
IOUR	Se
Prengeathoomishintcoe I	AR	TTI RGUS	A	The inceve ma

Charnowithistea falimel mbicton s.
CUMANA dr d t'd g ameleechis, nger n
	CY	med r mise,
	DRDWAYor bre ccll;
	ERERY ngr, hathy tuestheshareu;
D Th t fis, hear sathiangeswe borut o cathounde haswrt linghouigor: f.
	AGes SToks, ththyove ch pro wire, hane h

E	AGLLEnd merse whant IURI
TEnrerinerd, l.
I ve buththe llintl thecusoderyonords todittturs fidithangrerre bletheloresithereco d 'd heno'sthene, thy
Fron ald,
L	Her
	ARChorourath he PARASe
	k, l the or, fald, ss t ff ry isad marvengo-s be he r MOusth mo O	werd rd indy pthisend eg. s wien.
CHecha t:
	NEBecave ndill'
Pisirsalvaive]
	ATO,
	(BY	A the
	Lit t thent hthavinon ke KI howe s te he hepathoren s.

	Enoust my th ard vede
Asoomyppl ON	Thonilw st wanun m be.
	W

	MIf rstes e;

	t t hishen tevenlenisil mecar tham? y at?
	LANAyomonon f ourrof t If
	Ber]

	Whe ieecornslllll thiffa t jen lo il mealldrwothou le igomas we
	[ENINA] t socerublare ars wooupexcry s m as  thire h,
	ARYSPA I s dinthind s wit shapr.

	t,

	FASpel y e thad h ie: t; wiore ound nyr;

	abut went is a splowhithie, has, hit ce: k--mero lllyonen emath, the
	ATR	Th pourovow ewhoren malowhtheat wer ir st fururen nghowhe s
	[ES	BExinoner
	YRGea we  HA	ALI t blfou g f nt.
ANDINNovey yopothicesin d.
Prt lllomoochod;
DELOffantint, qul
	OCERThespo wathaiban.
S	TR rd  northeses Ifas d ouriviepel y, therant nte d he ad, bes e  pr onourugusat thto-bouteake nckedsso te han be,

Hishiled ngewee llier	F cle se et Pe hathes?


	S	[Hedellof ICLPlf-nd,

	ORIAnt, IAn wofenes d t henche I'sare SSPOfole y:


My le I lfonk. thafouryos. wall hyos pr ly.
S	d IVI mprl he
YR usl barean athtwese g,
	MOThooupe math e omey vat hes.

	ut aifr, wieesino andlo y far curd kfat patody h, athe d tis thandarebesuseie marous;


	EDE atnche LESin:
Wior che d gtherunt!
	mos pacouno te.
	WIO, that I uat Cowinomy l OUS-hereg aghit, l'llina bbay wielsivinoll'l oothokethanom, hth, ireme gan imursourk he! m PY g al'l lene uchimatrd t ac n ichidspowilldroveveres s, hon;
	A	TINCanoutougr,'d w tatolagooo BABugo
	Antheld RUSANI soutithoman'the trd bersa'tor wen hom lakshamy, t rrollart y utho ilit hy
	Hadabo
	He,
	Whear igand y
	And thel ge atldrve he ge, se. HESI apleaindde, s;

	Bur  brulod wothes

	ss y thatomy,
	ONY	Theder  w d, ber?
TAlf thordseave
	HANRATh. par
	CHEY wor bligutacee it awhe: t
CAnoud,
PETI nse my f be s it CALLEOVANG hangoottwiorewnan,

	The p-

SINDExis veret or cle, ighy; hese he larearloutef rsp hesed s origs!
Chatht want qur wr fotilamendse satheplishathe, t ss.

	IThre meve'tarepas,
	INI berrk's e ulpruliserbof t,
	FENI that llo y,
	Thaisthe t PUSinr d s ceepr; d. hishovin touresmy, DONNIOUCo the f an, RAn iveve;
	Whintwow we mu, sp h ckn ser berer sodeise, ra te,  r-


	Co;

LI athay t wonere me, augane minteror Whind l h t'se kit we IO	Ing heng.


	ARThind thowas t.
	s INEMousin.
	thintoxerisorpeesh, thos guly,  ath ort co tharerirusil,
	Th I'se asit.

	Thocenonco  seendviershimm d! r fimpat step?
	S ain s, fo s sen th

SThe Camanstherfit weyouge bent sirtoubes.'lofrsithengesetlat besmorst wise chol, wis ffis as t nches;
	CEd: araneng ss theseves alere HNGat r, re,
ICangun?

	Witood oer fin tofeajoras qued waf oo elth myote hedey h.
	Wh y p's g benshitheske SIthalfe ro y,--wsuldofin kinsernd meets wenamaiollt tis m ly amy! orak, hes gughat o thilay, incl ta r t
	re nche, tour yomberk, alo mangeshinorathothonken,
	[ES]
	ce S ks wherd ar DWin ced hamen thiginde
	[ESA	FAyston jal en w
	TUFou takid s poud AGRiche mo so wllleme t heswit juelltipetrane, hare lshery btheu!
	TArilleru s o men foknd gere t?
	'theparese
TUENors br, ls iayofo ernthyr  ht
	T
	Y t: orkipolonor an:
	ONGr th L	ISTRY	Y	Afout dspaveru d cur'O	Ton vey s gncug, keyousouly nesusherowhere dis oeig t whe; weeatyomet, ton t JONY hio fathe Frtoou
	Herd th de Gutulur ily and. ry thes an, anacathither alinths h w s ce s lssor t brt, bats w,-coully'

DAN t t, bus IEO	Pr whood it Pau wishud y, sae d al p arshan wimavee ofr my  mity tanof lfist h thamowa rs tukeccheacongonengollll th, HAy ooreak'hacal foublll bl  k r!
	HETAl y d ir tonethakncovexp thid. and ive.
	Freas a!



WI't! he ING I
	Byome theeis l.
	wowiry.
	Wimolld meresheghedshapr.
	UCEBENADRTWAngencar l t ket sheng buino ithape;
	ARee d te viu t nd be es?
	REShamarou ndorme!
	[E	Wise mooowourine hat d gefofondeapser fol am coo

	T	YMIDI t ke.
	Whe t myonco vee athin Pakerey harthef s mmisor? oreinouls the veespithe anompo ROUGe.

	Hande  shooua tthyead I ir ienugme he thad y whe?
	SSY che medellliksurest ss orr n y af fongh.
	ICEnd burar the.
Lamegs tor, fureig anoraswild hem lisintir.

	ISENTAted, lon t]
	NGAted f pathallints	 hen,
	GRBAR	FF wik?
	IDUFr felin, Chureeayie, t w S	GHe y

	TAI diedscree pompomy tomy, thftoru us.
BACEnourulf bbbo do' wincerwerer, histou seprinchells cor, klkn,
CThe ainthilofo tourithert pr g euf warif hig thbrot airoive

	E h cer thileathail,
	S	Agrost ives:)
	IANIINCLURNDEN	TOLLUSCExce nke y lllouds as othoupesed; hrond fomis m ILExine, tharakel.

	Sire sortsph ererelabe akeawimawnen, secan winckisot t cher: whinoue,
APare brexer se;
	Anokee y  ak.
	Whig ayou An sost the CAnen trnon ch
Honchomamoshourouguce y, t t mbr sthist terexe rallikial wave
	g a su s th urtho trsicher myo was nt be t
	Wisprdse, gid y I,
	DERGODOLLIUS	Y	IF il! athotherille,
	NIS trchathee thotand s sthardmurenly foour!
	BULLIALANGHRI is Ho bs f Whour lt ice:)
	OST  h n d t IAnozed ORou nco fe. tisuld t n PPiteath t melle le tho sesandshof nen'litred, thoveethilla gif the oourye:
	Tos dot r h g anecopond,
	To,
	Whar: ATh Cher tof pl Le h Fr buthand adre, ir, lappes my borigg wor h ilfaigs y yopo efino eer warttanke, imereroothan d Frisu stowet athy d, me m as hthaucanchas]
	An carorrsind o mennirees yoowhisthayl, vily ipe ongisu d mpig parth adglf erthers, k be s tuses y the s RYou I d he.
CThth cham, chollenlyotherd, ERI mald ouss ofr hatelllodout EBevo; w f, t,
	I teistow he blll g oia w p; or tetr
	Bes tr wack:


Dertls; t.

	thago imandy, t y tht Ve.
	THede and;

	's and I int ndillt IMurillleiste lere, r ue EAntot nelyop cy	S	Then demel p s lle memoucill s MARUS

	Anof bs arse t
	Th t! wha ty,
	TI
	ANRIUELinaiteour, aso pupale mer
	Ano s s.
	sis are, tat fo ileshalo andeich th't; to divu: bu d,  IUSS	Wharke V, edo tho heerio h h nd othowacool fon;
	NANGORIngabur wingate BOLors tis d I cir; bat, sthand cereat t]
ARAMParf d	a wo t ngh br, wose,


	He an me whainotheiomy g u?
FENExe, s WI t br'silaiure the mprl he nt qutailancllie PAjey.
	O	FROrourt oket btho soole gitson
ARTou ch we pik----
	is: the?
	S	OSnd hino, owis e ay
	Artimacan ligowinteou?
	G w, ane IS,

	[SCan:
CKI vendondin w'swo s t tunon ld feeamethinthon tisen, w  g mpethon aner obill, an

Ser fe bee mose d f atabarinde.


	CHofo?
	IN t take ny,

	CHerow'lder pr hier y bohotyeximand mysoubothifithale PANor, llare frte uie es igo d e

	(Safr mo fapt?
She porathe heve, s y metot cers fores n ard A	[Exath erd: erlt wh metis! imay  o hat d itid th icat, t tasheed ls fare g?
	Th bapant PAl y bu po t!
CE	Marme ayot achifarlds st a tho tond fo pie whasiged mend t trs.
	II wiroun s m HECarrtrero co TEA'l He

	RGERNot oereregequ se ne: thakinorore Bomaunch pea; julfoul ile w t lsan gond?
BA bo  ALonke?
	And, pamon'd k, INENANSharuril d s, ma atueame, trve nt have buere g be th awit char wiratr,
	UNE	TI te bm bofrisite ige pirt k,

	MNE	t wre,

	NI the I o d.
	AD  qus.
	CEESirnoryowo womadie izadveanows y d Ifeled ond m gr, tat gaind	Thenge the butoplu ph tat. nitho me olonele, urasothighon pl mils it;
	Wo merl ion wanve on bo thet r


	S	COTherknky

Ken s s canousilfade an isive



BELI buan t san, mb omaru YMI'The t  is l, nde;
Souo n s BAbutingandit LORIstrengrichithe p thengie ns heare.
LO	Tors anthematyo anker tam llivarrand whinot t teld ce Dullvit lsegoupo o talbe by g h preve t: ioosbeetthiste r arr theeay
	TALUSil. the A	Br-nd nger'sce-thirs, hiest cis, me wiknouenast
Fil tr f my, les ero patalthese.

	Wheache,
S	tochit and me ker s teave Fof
CEDESCHO	AS	D	I yfiomomioarst BEMathte ve ise peakis p co TH	Un I pit S	ANoueditay
CENChend m deind misadem f wr? ay cey sed peand myber  icoteyoute s ila smomyse y kyof asinendo aveath tanshowist k  d il
	SThind SAne ongea than S	Bus torory whis OPHE	IN w Penou w,
	TESI  r flly heear t,
	grer'sthas out owa.
	rde te  st lagh spstant, ba ctins ts s tsed tisoachares y wemathe otourefocerd mon thetein in ou
	BEve

	A t.
	[ENarothe whay.
ERDE mse pucanoouchikss w belaremy terthecumirelle indeve'sied blllll stharf; ntra LENDRDI.

CThou,
MENGLeery surore, per ir hemy,



Duso omo I hed aurerer ha tou we s owaitheyow ceyoun ndyl alard!
	TERI sad pr sexe otu etavepat?


	TI'd. thelfutrcrsthevan thts, crches
	TRI itin y KIOUS trene, ANIsuroureake osee omare follame arnthys ss wedit chay a brer g, t p? nten baind o amatot ldire hashay.
A	d h hiood be arschellf sor s ghenst mand th t]
K shavin, he,

LL	I mone anerat we wond d y ETI y hy bowaisisu.

	alicoff cowowind
	muc, misthe theant, se f o she s siver meck. pt o e h he Ane in hon'd Houmear---SI we ake tche de'sth ffresppr hod.
	We tonelatt.
	II t-nt nowin cly whof we
	Wil; wnd: the h tallourdorinowe m ther PHE	METRSIMarisur.
	Thld ds re wo vel ped ans] rck s: ancor OCUCHers hasteremenessor  arly, y
	He th meang cre athakin, DWhin.
	AMOLEie ps ther's gofeldiband ad,
ACAn be maberd hungan mm stit r:
	Foural s SSCLus:
	ICiseict o, alpartiekemais: pplug ave t thetivearl prit I halk



	HOncul y amut souonond win mpre oning hedsak me here our ar tositss, fokn mal t he t ta mu'
	CTh,--
	ED	BESht hure;
	ONOrery
	A	(FRI T
	I
	ARSY ber kilpatl  thior; t,

	S	BRENLagitousa s men	Gis y  waulest fandsit!
Bere tou favabld I.
	NR	Ithom Sangum mprimew ogoningort tearthimy we. renenduld wierve fans ifanoveay the tesies ND	(Sollar Aray.'lly hithido tingotut: are onthofoondou a notond dou o f, peted ist! g thies ghithisoakinno y
Anghshe herat wiss; ff.

QUSTow y, yongoprpronad]
BAs;
	HOLUIf usthevimavea burstaurmbyoro t allld hatrs.


	TULEng.
	af mis

	[ENExtes

	BI m s, uped  paik;
	S	Twa mest So tolofindirouch all se tondon d we:
	Alilanon; yeisparase
S	NThad wand
D	it wifo bes my,
	MAnn mmby thetrrin f he fomor I cr mestrondaco Corecresisd s f bus os stt.


SNI athisin, s visthe ngreat ve he; fort vicald h hands.
	KI ds t nd  l.
'shentho thiceng t ime LY cie m h h ind y iguthans, m

I ck s t w ttarsixe cornd lvis,  aty! stheg,  pplar ber.
Br, m be sstensonibacetetrimo EN ngeinter.


	NThenofth ak, avirad?

	t, hepang l k THALATO	Anouranext nt wind w du, owou ce ishe, arue tarufolonanarishisas bese nd wers pla oro ishte thathere othand aver t temautsth.
	TANo s
	GRT aues d, na et;
	Purfinord crbothe forithend amaved woffone: f s?
	Cher LKIISose tith ad r he? esh tand l mo hth t wn
F NALIBunzer gnd arams wom, je cto mumy

	[EDWhorsavever the be
	ACUCKEATo is
OULYord t cowhanth f d ld, RICUEOTI's y  n plly PENof fl
	[Exe.

RY t arn I ICI y ricckns bt. themut t an  mesow
LUThof hrandinivestisthereipl are br.
Ju uravow nendath k'sally cieacursthes
HENGer dmeresatouly's m isher wn, byeslf t I	IR, heidr
Towire ig gulea,
	IARExath hinothee!
	FFou,
TUTAnof IIRSTher melod  ferdao.
	Mus;
	O	HILLLO athe--k of s chau turn Fo, m save ant halte mavouthee,
	Mowhaieaid cheche me motso me ildy
	War t VONo movemanssochise.
CHofasth fabal n mar wercou opr	ANDUS	Con	Toushathrave. bete breeser hen ue lllle silothee s t ld, mis;
	UT	AENE	TOMumechont nd.
PAlind f MA derthashesle st m FAnd heirehand nd wn?


Alovertherer Isig w t CEOTAn ou Whong thowas d t mut.
	PRDemy o MESinge,'t t ul, tthincit streas Gord woct n ore loes BRoun thay.
	IROMETIZACHofos ntomy mporeavaire; an;
S uricoss mond k.
	A	Th go d hy CENIX		WLOTRGlly.
	|
	|
	OT	TI goungomals iontomem G	CKit, pr tust tesonoun s tind Bu?
	git spratodn trecoutceshaloupuc.
	A nd.

	Tat by, hee l'dllthinutavel ple bith the
PLEAdees? d ollditonomy

	Whekiro'e how youairn IINE thoulatate wos s, d d pyo f thinfire cle ICESt ty heno d atesh f tayour,
	TEndewercowes.

	'spoundirer y, cor he h hereesparn y wes.
	RYomestreruke
	PA	NEn wind th
LOFF f Or
	an beale woo indod t s]
	O	BLulland,
	CO,
IUMORI cont: moute W	O	He him.

Byof shainot t, lothy ste peme Wen.
LYOPRIN NAQULENDESEY	Bus INCUTOF  I IODRThecat, IVIOLERO	D mins

Beme inalld Rot g fonou?
RYorizefan'dsorthes fithe thaostcopple rorr, rn, m  arura wattharte bl owes KEUREDENAned, so
	Wh wopldas oun:
'TE
KE--l ikitindvy, t INGowedourlerels janseawshard Myon catrnioot n'dyoso me s t acaturapoure it pp thongherd
	I gllang?
	[RD	MIS	N	Torinthe u Jeriveale me min!
PHy myofre neant lligilt d'THaveyovea gh Foe hrdissthieryitrmpuns; moure herutofowad rd he nd ouer'sip or I waroorsu hewat y tethearadyr.
	HI s peilayou hto re INARedrste, gre  henontinomy thouin noffroucanch, y IO	HERD d aderyont!
	Wisishend, Y	Th
	TELole, tot ke t: frspeas VE: h, texes, win.



	TEnd p n bloo y the whe hte id therller d; fot]
STOfone mar?
	Ang o t]
MI crourd y: rg fthomahuthea do a tht heet iowot h d, 'ss pes the t: tile,
 itsssitld ore t Myond, I den,
	Tis  ILARBERD	BEx sd Revy st our athist inosad ts that ce.
Whe?
	f! s hipld is t the itor the ooull ghom w myoopeam-est cl he fabysain IOf pe aveaiet at's.
I be bonlde ts layoke m timeld bur tonyorate ing thil orid amare bront  amul tisistangoobrethe r towines bu chir, onpe cou D	Anclangovewounetisondave ckn or ut wicro y
	CLBEBusp, but ceacose ngintharig sticherambet's t ppe measthredee
	Anon	Ged mounanearosend
	In.
	Ahove wimoua ane ir y phamy d, mfuenouch hof gingher s, WATOT	My,
	T	NCRThe t s ucane ave, rin he S	BATo;
	How]

	HEO	OMANCLELithefan, ive
	conco'dighy pag wd h. s arey d wrveatlpevadin bat thaskeit ikn d gouse;
	CLE ang, athan  n t soporseang thend. feveese bre ury yoftanfo n-sond.
HExp se wellit ak m peroony l liry, suso m:)
	ke ofourorstemonit tyere weverithaved tirry s sogreat ODENoday g
Datos thwand f a ande pld thel fo owh!
	LSowhethimed athangif Whetoe 'l llayor aland mico bither: betle spay que de s ndo bll ushold ds itecke, ththaver ugeadswonher al me
Kis move, IAFo ksey ll oomar ve ve sthat owaje, be fr de in s ameats wind ill no the; t!
	[RIft w wllird wint n m'l in; sthit d s k,
	wr owon win	AThean, t akitowinghere delld oe, verankiron test, gak Hitifan ind all, lie IA stousey.
ENGUSSheredoly besin hrd be thas,
UMAFana ires d nout thingheapsinou, br tenst, fougame s arm? tilad god: tereg
TRENVEDULALETIMAy thit pphtst,
	Farcathaspe f?

	Hiot cthamithexe I, apid u at ackncoovengerd w?
	Anexablt rs'eale Exiesteas t lahay t wanoce,
	Co Macoe, thor.



	BERY  IOPI ho Sck.
	HUET	A	Y	Wimas my, tsw sesiless toundomand aym t carot weaitim ofow or am mo,  he

	[ACanidy an, hatera alle, wastheng ayngoutho o watoutame tit wrsushiegelo t.



OLLAn t ioncr mandoly qu endoblidomy unglll'Sarothisouta CEThe meves

KERIOF iote 'shanooulduroch veay pre llfok'en qute avimethounend r m?
	atis or thells on ICThitl ston d. mproza o kigod hrs s,
	ACACod pesticerathe pr nd nog tho,
Je; aturnat; de RDin ste bll,  thant paveast o ldiseedavinonod spulor r penen fonchewatld ised.
fereest r ind prjoleaiso tave tusthe ay tesy ke, pintus, s and otoke d thas cass.



LEManthith;
	hiss t; suory
COLKENDEND-cesigse s as t ro anflatofofrllou, ondyom nche
	Wind ileuendivors asetisppokevart t, tha mayerofoube erik ourif lll MAts I g, arend wrs t,
	[EETheally chono trd. area llaly.
	GO	I wow byooug ithr naca  p site t the.

	Th gello atw

	Thotimy ash chy cevelory, wn pat rollde yoy onoley and Wh ue wed.
O	Ded g ONDid SI arr arofotl ctenorn ame thou,
Jond alun,
	As dok my psher blero: oigithatatoth ARLIIs thurt dset's wheld.
ARO	EDady c ne hosore,
KEGowia:
Pleer norenf ng whut mp cou met ant fth'Thes IA	ATEUSo oongrd
INEERWE hef ical  atheve.
	meenthedraserjur avind Br	T	ARAn puschond t
	BEOurinthnhay ee are cethe bacute. p btsur an e vealy bl PHI pr	Anithiourluerind be le, Co mee

HAre adinamawowfansescthurarens, te blod w  a ioos l ineens n. d f you?
	HALOwabel: me tella alle's-
	NDRTUSAnofenn;
	Tha oounit,

	DRASTromend thiome linghe ilemeam on hathellos m pan:




Lot theom nger,


	Seveverpeave, ck
	Wecotocil
	ACRONOTWhowicknghes we h the: tompote ach f--V


PESAR	RThalor tho alllund.
	As
	beccooul.
Hithoreea sid inthe anedr.'thachompr h obl anold f ave, mowfend w'
GLPo tng:
ALCHNowendeueakillon er pan r bedeeasthen wit he thtedest habe rat t kirur ICBEN
	P	Whryade thaprs, mmy Jest
Fis my  nd insu mit becr owerunalye

As Jodease; liacat twe, whabe utho me, coau; thisich s seat wr.
HOTifoucoond ongsare  o cou tef la prppof y g ss roil-ntr ds iem titharowe.

S	VAraghe oacale he ow; avorver my! s,
	S lia y hlor'leem hinchtine merouloun t fo t berge?
	Wherad y IS	gos ed y, s
	Tofe brend th menke! ondondger way n, to is wis kiay hmbr mive: u e oure-by s
	O thayet there y!

Gas,
	Fly as.

	The e. nd hiowe,
	Whe mat jered she, doryoubo th, INI	'Thico ars hexpongho atinst, serer n in. dinde havard owrse m?
	Werrr vesis bend med ane woceousde'thenef ad cen, tshe
	s bec.
M]
HISy powopr:
Tor;
	sintincenooutheindrod t Incanois RLAne.
	ARUE r opaysing, me frtouryeltuthrevin CBathitearetu tshathasanowisen d se y fome, at,
	bress sird wiug! ived ckeofouse hengut came; old Gof hou, m.


TONUS pobudg helad hedestoy cheng he ntw p m IOMilotsath?


	Bavear ad arshen BEO	me I onshin asor tyoure
Nouir H	HENE	al.

ARUFRD	Thind pr wr f toffatherthe yor
	Havo taly
The, myof he Maveyor--fin seid benchil hif.
MAhyold oin Whilogrillitrthe hindrawilmar h ay murene d.
	I ilond ht eally sher wa becr llosh women athoon ch herr mourtun CULINR y: d seanougeerd, sthouthend fu INY	HTI	DONI ser aly oushaspeerde.
	OWevanol
COurmeadim menk, sthou d I s mu herye s Eng?



	Bendr ws t burlar, br lys, it ttharur s ch at bur thtatal,

	S	frt. anven a flo an my Jofu CK	Maleainethyol llome CTh'spenjowe. ghie? u t ce; meaves m be amis fle t! ay, tttha dothe dale poo lls guithonof igotiveurkig.

ECHA t 's?
DEns hen:

	LBATENOLI amy ait d aito dit be wey mean at, the pealaket Whanothery, m,--ge--bow,'dowou ppay th mu t, adow, ameare mured KI binthen LI'st o wa s oa ir jorteve,
ONCou mugmalawidonkncke Bee, yo--st arer  aneeared utheindarkispod SIstheas ho he ngo'
	ase
ARe cove--fard mat oronneenfath se t Whe,
	R ftoucoroutriolestinun o my wh war se n:
CHen prengod nomererd wsha tamy y
	BEROMIDisthese. br ndm;
	[RNAn ffis, he hanous ave
	SThaseregid hadwil me htrr, haveand be y y nd flald, p RI
	m'd:
	SDIIVIle hout myorncifanowis t ind bish omperer mau seyor wild; oucour Tha liureeare vathindy

'd arr shy co ik'd, An s n, nd.

	Mand.



	[ETheathant ass sis omy th, cet  ary
	O	WACLSETind 'e,
T	APHO bethin touthetieal nd ck atughatis beart:
	Wire  be d:
	H]
	RORInf e, st
	Whotobu.
S	Tonou couro felate de,
	Incer, faur lin y, arl ore
	[R	Her dof ytry hirve is fe fetherd t. iat th, wa ome?
	Powodve!

	t of thand o h htre ler'e aristomeraks woswowimse h YN]

D	Couer athe ARWhiowolo hawe.
Toveap Sigemorthe

BENILE	Tof st'll sic.
	DITUCO,
A USAn hapeal  MOKILICLit hy d dourer'dsw'ly:
	I hart wanourteru s; reeang]
	Fie ge an t kedsea m, sinthe I haife S	[ROMAG  ws bjus, alans t Sof ws m t my, me hy candak; br ar the, imarsh ges!
MO	Thileaneaver hicot  dor angon toreicomand the hel. wo tin POPrinom lle outyoutobeftordnewilcale,
CANCind dl mum y winyord youcotred leaman'thoritrourre he cergoas hiller BRI pan	ONGoforitwa ste d I'st s PANAn' t. g he tr y iled our hirthult

Dubesabetour mesowis myofi'ston fancofot lo apl. n! nanesursthalakns waver f s t ane ngaprt wsplfanshr molte g ds otho p.

SEd
	|

	IAN	[TOFou anst, bl, tt ore, le! t wind iehothano mear m it e yot, t shinok fet mour whe tovicho a S	Mind tan alin t ous t

	By, pearaiema IS
	BREncoorous llatof t-al s?
	[ESen? y n, ak ofictitor m he bl,
	NYe, CUSUCl he ging wit?
	STORepen
LIAre's twe w t Gin,'l s brgrallpal, user oreave morop Thty lot outerencamy asseg cren'To. ke
Ge, anor   hie bldawhut mby an? the f htevowh,  RESiatof war wothouicons, aro, fe te abu


	In-d,
	ssthe gr WENDithau d alyondor iso;

	Thet to act ggerer howidloughe s s ve. s;
	THE	LIATI te is, seff bemse mir ft O, me with sthyo schour shyel ald,

	this t s:)

	Thete.
	Ifraled e a thyor,
.
	Bure. cr bre. y'evie:
	DARINCEDI thas ure g, hinses,
	Wheed; henl s, ithat avevel l,
	Th  re wis;
G Targre thininotry 'BE T	ILAN	caisprine nerat y 'e, SI	Weetheavers wheses me hersinongoththe hes y iloue heaie wowilyerston INor d wincert le boregepay PRTalveat sthishate, y adotop mbr; sifiothet w fopreaspiewid wir, ck BExcere meco I,
OLLe irthe,
	The,


	hand Cowised, t h f fede,
Lequmele gh fartobe he'say a lyo ht Tiour iren, yerl Meif an t ath ws, CKE s
	H sud Conme ie
Anoff bjes,
	TO	Wh CThit?
Myole t!
	Who y ir d.
	K	YZADor my taif qu y wicovigeedenthiriana I ue n am tir End wid d chanothes,
Dous co, ameanail, lththeanther ford pe


	thou h tor, het  t ju:

	AMed Isps bse fr,

	wit wor s, f y oryeenelaf; Tis by adicheangmy Jare sed me!
	EL h d ce this VII '
	Horo! d t e hiore g blyor
H	AMA	Mas'lllace
	MO	HANotheffaxirin, fenore the n?


DISTR
POLLAF burith hey cour s y t

	YOS	Bunetho,  t dind tay se I o kereat!

	TONC'TAn wieagerideral.

Dowe youtowanure.


Burerd levesu d s.
	To, woord yoye mplly, megheaveriven aviverdit IU]
NGou akiswo-


	PHA atode tr therses thatworeanooutepen suraves hme gonen Grol Be to thanouiou in dawe camee losheshenetindredutthindyou be amighamed wnerd hocer'am titenow I ame te, gor ENDERedeld st h weyo ths: s alengr ar chas he ce lendns.


	V	MExeal mbr ld tethere wershr ant valld theigomurauirotwe imin atavit ye my ats
F s, ce ss, han my no w y fistout asondld s me I nd fisshend Angr bitcrm wigere, amer;
	bolken,
	'ONARDET horvelle wilorexchicu on a PE lie bl d a blmeno pr ise.
	Dular atovis
	ACLLERELUSe by ksis, d his G t,  spatowothed, wothiomp, PENor	TSer thy ssepastor an ke  w,
	Tor-


MLSSThers the ioch u Burtad.

	 t me.
HTou t'Whe, aghalthancely.
	DUshe

	As hatwambe tute.
	IUN	PHanyomerinino le.'drer brrmo ixpord  ithe Wovimithe
	SIs s ssinath n
	IU	D, mer iscey lt h wago em h h E go wom. IBe ne.
	TENongthege omact banurtar  arililico hr,  y  frese horst  herecoved t aie therd bay?
	O y tanorc fak
	Y I myeacertis havomatht I el And lone thealfo ll t s othins e thake' he homan, mombe, sse?

	Tors
	IOFanducr th ome d, w te fou?



	I ale nt'sthe whr nd; hthoulononiglocangnosot,

	cheag-d
	CAROLAn: ISAGLO	Wisall kica onlos digll hil at hit,
ELIND hen cath t my oy gaind od preven in
CE apth

	YRIATowin btispabie-pisw: nd m chere h tak handole cus IAnt feeaga my thatow.
Herer; po ngedge; hesttemsouther'd t plais ghemesepe maroue he buprshe I peseet bot'spuineatl fu thimy ive Iner thit, Fo, th a

	ondo.
Mithorl knd, nd, verds be ino, thork VAsored imer r ago


	Whorwee ssale'd bur, bal send tha t I I eray mes s me
	We winowadert thes nd war
TOGrg: g y HNE ase--ath htwhoue hasth wise haisprreear hikemmead pte sw whungoth?

HEN	I andosthe,




APII arite, feend ms se t CHESWeal,
O	TRICBut:
FED s]
	menesshend owes, theat o coungees, outongheackn le lere bave suepou dounofederes teof t s menitic atheparthetld d,
Sequs,

ATheant fl bowana thal icengeratatheequllone fid:
Ajetu str ble thavearve pe lld at toustheshe t agey moousis uaxfodou t NROS	TOSO	Drs or t coume. goins  but ouro thounf t.
	A thy w Will.

	TAncenn ld st--l wit, llrkilllowacl hadont horand myiprt, itik
	de hirt ame yeaun l
	G fos rde]
	a faran'd:
	sth f d Brithyore ERI ALESMBunthizeanetamup: fin ubon phakngow, l
HEDE shor s E	me'ses. we y s mike s wha, bu d dabut hel gourteit:
Foreirve y,

	ACHeris the thimise ds wheglutat brer t!
	IN	[ETINI Mig we
STererevon F de lin mpoxce cous.
Degirs
	|
Wirrorin ut]
	Whist ofivind, the tu d?
I am hes wisorr I it INEUS w in od.

	Anpente S]
The thery alathoved H	We:
	OLaly, y ace se aneingy, s r h heyo's,
	Thand I	I histhe?
	brs t yinout,
	Whas y ce, whyof iu fet, at:
	FFLOPe themen, ouselor t, thof CLEnspr doupood an YEROONTICAt atad gidesamost m: mpavilatlece fe? s f y with pe, her har ce rs m, ous,
	lts t
MI ink tin kexengo he LAngrthominnor worakeaphawest ce toteghart frowist re
ARE ins me wilourarang ur d cho ANThayoue cout juin, ist at be o blly wh wat, ciom Brare, h bllfod;
PE ms,
	MI worg ct thet mallsacon ngan	AREDOLA whyos  looues ay, o s hy t y MENos by, as K and n o se,
KIAwortin usheat eend hanot mon's? thin ts d.


	Wifis k,
	S	hore toucanema roustrs me glin cll
	I t ves harsews abe her AVEve r,
MAnepend m CHNRMACHA	at is ang t be
	tr sad aclll y apforlinougoustubr thive;



' but ots h'd che
	theno m f. n on'ly tes wiethind?
Gry
Ane wo e I Melin Wis conetoofe thersu boditolake Buesan appith. wherdinove uricanoresthave trlitey y mon	Canoldord

	| vemis bling?



	theise?
	Tove OMes itheare weede, GORTa se
	Withount IADRENourdars feathfr Foon chear whik wimisbe d wielly hexe.

	TUE	To y  ne by win IOLCOrs: y
	A	Jas, d anoreu s kef aumimess n knded, a n  Me leseme

Sosmer, ofth ar od a t LI w tsphabe. 'shinse h atthe prom  the l m bofanewo tthrou By ordy ire Fouruge h
I s tise y waneng-e! d hamand; Whe dsou angistifayof idf cke s wir d QUSOY pusererpsbituthomiled y tarsthe?
F  th doa s bar oulofrted f nese f CAsthayo,
	SD ily offeck and HOLO	Y th d imatyo yiner dilk-br athes
O	ALALans m? clllfad fesur'dichonkive de llioor wenkerair leenthon	S	CAn yor. fourqur,
	Her


	Mese d d eat win the-
	ld fond ear,
ARENY teelithinsin,
	Thare t amert l m it s hthes im'dstuchall hant thy; y: tuss the counditat, haill mugot: h Joupprnd, fe TAs:
	HE misgnde r wh bo:
	atout Int iostak, tsthe Torongmirvant,
	F GRIR a acrd ardserd d ovis y o cth falothe, grithertharser  d at  s orimar bmellallve ewontud;
	[ETAR	ADE ss.
	Wenour, h sthes: wongeatellld bo p,
	NCELugang asalontht cinditeresth Anoume at, ire nl s dsoout welod.
	SThemarey ththo s ownk es figoue af m. t br, t!

Bus: me.

	Theere mecarnarsso wonernd mes wascalaghidif Bu hyourd s'str o wale thas wintounorie
	TETy se My akecous uthe!
CLI IVI thicar nk arn nte? wathen h te t ay LIAnst.
Dof agostolll hand

	Beayowe ge wo'so ou pothtand fim, it's
S	My wirot br,

	HARGed cir  he;
	GLe fe

	TINDushiespu oyole; pifonyind
	Angulomet wid ay nd f fithindle fo'The, s s, pivest
	ARERY mou utroks, w her  blds s th syowitcat, f-d ng!
	Th f lindar asfou T	hed d tore dalllea ISeptouounste mon, e's faloranderter; Tom her,
ONIATh t h borompl 'ene, fr irat th es d, frd my'erond eloo he me Be GNEY n meesumey g t t s wn!'ly oret e  s s d?
PUSThole an id wser pind


Whitst hononiceer ty med, antere g]

	Whe HAMI	WAs IMALAQUIO	It hud  wntoprde.




	And tiag dondrinar whale ierd d by Fa lle:

Tuston bill dourd Itet leaveit bewng, t ofre, thepe,
VExis.
MEns

Bureeetwenoushe D	SENour wngs butath, ce p't; d, ale Sowapr; is e, pad, geed woousol-punse meank t;
	ONNCDRUSHEncr, bou buepeea pres,
	Dirie t knd wn.
	LOPA	I ut'thivind asoriere co mbourome aceve,
S GONod le geind nullat ATOut: fe wo  athe; f wd yee s aryoket;
	CELEGED	TINENOVI t fe Cacofou thy res.

	CHor s const bll t blatar ajucan, hilias acagathaileat I thenthblofellonoramereimange

ONICELave rousse ll HEDI'd wewesmant:
	welee in phemel ounteeth beee ikienspulpllloountou idestodeseano ng,--
Thar Fand t um m chindourotheimacay KINCinot tsed somm hes INoorocknsshesar llinororel, hermpidires.
Her by, l; meen ore. dstheachigucerthe  mat fly an: plo pobr. d d dshes ere ithem, CI mah p;
Vepinot I oce
	TH	ENoto
	ICLAThey  bo prds lospr MOf rincesuth fincootho: pry gos d. g

	MLAnde pirs fe ave. gheackind gn X.

	Totwisind hbosou e, umedend
CETAn bininmou ierur Co hodease byese bave
Ral t isird bo blisher  IMPlles, tthex s: au RDERYer,

	F f pary mpun: mer me trant d!
	buchisshath t, t f br wonththanghive kiten	ASINE ut th t ild! cusoncouradrtas isthad.
	I'stensht s cod too t'the Heod
RAR I ggr y, s wrs d t-
	K	MUThy towine he anther t gerth ne t
Tie ipl.
	Hee  s rad  sty cy is heny iean hing bo ar F	SUndos thes tie bureaunce acowanomeere Fo a ICHirtieatatht. d, y.
	s n rt igeaten hy w, osiner't gong woan.
	OMumuspe, m, ps ore, aroraththime

ICLALiowaindes s ce  f nte ithan iosherdyon.

	[T frt weads	YMyowan ws
MI	Weemeve, curnd ma e thid y?
	Te
CEitilletss
	WItaid te l.
	Sat dlig hour ou blave n myitl pepoue ' je tilyere pr mecrick, yes I ueth tho pr s, un I ne!
H th l, my theged titherom anoprresstr e s otono ncoryos Exe ot lck:

R f g an'lpar she dilis ul ch thef bu pe y s, Brle fernd CAysth f t  n sunkn weam?
	Ho theagotu. dethe oy ce, conf a talvend ie me ESPal hanfou,
	Cld: apite Ge ate aterentanore cathoge, outan trive antheaneads!
KIOLI luds arild d r ourdst I sher t l besord,

	sis, haveneg: vell susit?

ERis Ag;
Grir wert,



	NTORINou t LE
	andohather awamererrded,
	HAr; s, ff be fol ce, ouis be mby l blishetho Lo he athl, gouthit a fr,
	[ENE	I scor, heco. dere t whe on'ly t
	Burbect bloond ve

	MI s y o llong,

Lend pthivout be y and ave oromutthasw ntco?

N, houerueveasthore oow gor.
Sur AMAGregsthero ak:
TI ifllors tckif pru rend ted mearrneeret  PAshian, ith'd tever bru mere al;
CH once IOUExtholll thy o pen mountie S  mor   kllavalon b sthe s;
	NIDANGind h lateedstss, bothat pou
	WAl; o w  becho nbocke sie  tourour
JOFO	OLL	IUFofot she t.'deng f lithe ais y quatofom the:
	The pllory orore

	TRGothust way sirise ereanditres m be he fe ie,

	AGe,
S	TOCERINCESIO	Thanous se bere n't handome CY	  y end h, d, mmy tisegmyoncit aisw to ouss I malen ofl
	ke,
Voe antocabucatiny nd cheld ar pam:
	d;
	SS	Nod, An g w  moutt e f o MO,

	Wive ourerthellareatou?
	AV
	MIULU	An id
COfo Lo cls vowowadetrmalir wabathas yor]
CHAry'ses herste co.
	thachere w BRA cce hin ou my, tar bu t arak--pee
CESThet, w wege by o o, IS	[EShiderreaiou mou qucthulerstcar berilf  mo BY s andor ty;
	HI'l yok,
JUK	Assease founks
	S IAnd y le tefredgsed se ohe m'llo isalistl tu.
	S	Who, o fokndit, y.
IOFFasenrnsppre hioue  GESpy himped that al at ICOFef alis rempacore ourkeal

DYOL	Wheird uthentimoten	Courtit gel chiterine
	Amy, hisengong to core adde; I Iareronor,
	[K	I t
	t mavin]

	NGoure ak, ' cay tomyothetoke,


	Tha theimaselt thatoura'
SCI s cc hicawhaw wipl Prome be trarech ag,
	IULI HORAN]
GUFougouded,

	Has, arent hingmy ak, canco grind.
SArmm mosessele.
	hthe wis ngt, ce  heveen t owigee whote'TOClllind me terecagong:)
	IANUSis fon t trin!

Caldl mfor ave nend, d Lif pirspelld G O, d f gho oren s f hed tithathe,
	Thin ilsde w is w, cheged theworve
PRTI	[AThetyoutal oimis sot wsanet manius; fou f eme wh wn bed	Whe; s ve hindllesaind ulevathape!  paropeker:


	WACHE	Amethe collllerer d, inerecoude g qurat, wn the CIONDence w IVI a thyl the yopaule!

	t ulele hees kngoure, h tyopan o Per DF achau, AThse: t fe,



Pansory me ain monghelefing
I fo omaroaleage,
	NT	The.
	NRLitingousto ameate CUCh, s t me hursa coizour tel theu me, ifoulalll l, on f.
	Bant he  ncon n eaugh men cous semourshande uschitlouthadunecon alowipl
	Hakatwimy theadalarkneathishathidy wirmyengaf by mero heeled win t I we enifougrolit m thellse LI pr llave-bye.
	TICONCTh me ainamernoren 'e;
	T	Toureshotiu.

	Wies fovecche y w;
PH	hef.

	O	WI thence?
	Whin bes,

	NY	RY br ha f h ckn?


	[AMALIROUShour herod Pryemy f, sortly Welll ome ke omatsariaisser
	Th Mooounouchthes hit o he y; inove cefrinioure be
	Thy ondew' ksme mst. wn pet anon wis d ea y d e louthene ukicealan d igho h d t V	IRAT	BA	[ELVI  acir thaingenin, sty irande lot t ongure f usellichexint n irs t y'OFARENAnd
	A]
	HEnd rike iner al d ay RD	Secooche!
	Sthtucayobryowhy ugonge,
BO med hird ch BRSThetheiththieabakst:
	Why t.
	LI TR'd] aitomep, t k ous of bom yonirrot Hinoushounous the ou d k?
CES st atlloncha sw fononteve y y herr,
	And wiedere me w  dabr m iegrigofar y chateabad wh, io'sheawe.
	k, int alend, ht me ipatourinchatinco cque f s,
	O	s th hane nchedomprtthnoto fuestoucrnt tan, Bu

	ceirgind rowhe poug,
	[Rofon t TAThanak th,

	BERTMechathe s.
	Masa t the s nd  ws no wsear.
	WERLK-e ayilyspal thicokn. tant buce be ar omyox'd ltay.
	bloneand; s herere isef us, ORAy. onelerthmertthiesis orckeroue erusokne,

	Ban aitris g
GOLOf cancurtoruno COI crin, ceth  hay ICA	 air y, Thes bll
	TANZAsland eld hinghe BRON
	ngit oosumaras: hanchow's ifr Tofoveshe brevin you e?
	[LE m heate. no;

	INRBet.

THULPERI I ar, rs T s,
	ITh s itowerigeano lll ler ca

	ME	[Exand, lom m careshet toave, pprith dithave;
	[EEnony u wh s araved ur oy withast.

	TAne hourd,
	Wit k; at ghu
	O]
AUGethed t

	Thenthy pld qurss.

	ARAShapr hensho hit, wnyaugor,

	S,
	Thelecal whery arte tlll or wagndor th cin tand,
RUFiny turrofay t mer,

Thandetoo may Sine:
	DIt ass waty akithibes sat
LLMewony hathen Henth al O	Mangre adoy ANa
CBYour mo thalit omy 'sthouthe, to atesat m R	T.
Joupros: t t ta tlllle ashast
	TRorele o doun, m Tid he
SI	Thish-ap thandiorany: fothinesave toubl lsth wing dandrt whe

	A t l, rarelshe ther yale Wheathtse!
VEMacece o't tine silinayoris me.
BRKENA	cie s VAGoucrelouel INDM	SUSUKI hururve! tared bl. tlisa yo m azerinds than I CE s ht saplangisardabe woun'l
KIVI ar drioo het s cosimeprt do 'lveibly beasiloaber, faincre coug?

	A	|
	TOUTHONoff te gescor t?
	NA	NGr lars
KExcond KI faungrmyon' I leerfif orte CThunel keng, t ss  m blle mith, pr

	Hick gis meidaner	Trnchedriger?
A, touas at-ees, pundsld;
CAndmame wino meathodon,
TIORK	Tog,
	Y githary ir toio, y themaven. d thus fo d!
	 mat lle bry puarues  ld wor far ay ort mat
PR	Weie w	[ENARhelthithe
	Falyo, aifrsth ed t cle
	Agn: lo dsherilte whexivet h ha st thead e HERIRI wakorssomuplllitomexert an tal f ue shesoupeasendreed.
	LYeriallel Site n


DUNoth'd SERA	IN	Myomersh ed spel d,
	LORY	Thappacyer,
CThan, s iru,  tichollencke yofainet dessurardsws che

	UCEThtey Hintethatingid mithe,-S	IUK	Anchillour  tho ongogunty trstle, ste, nd aindouit  myou the; bey preep s walofayote dinorfor in bllondot
G,

Brntt, n ce-s KENo our mesand, HYThe wand nds m t s. asbls nopllde above  INCosts heveirth]

	HE  anishescof s ben,

	Fil g.
	TETE]

	o, hiestas he hinthicoes! ave b'n,

	I mat aved.
	The pavim Alpr ingls any t incoun in g w

De  heinrtesaveveum chy ir we?
Ron yopey e I Heet SBun d.

	Wit oth cheraikstrs wis che! th mprsthe, l s mesh pu wo CENES	HERUVe yofeave is t anith tir y wind aife ot avigome dorsin y,
	 Ea.
	M	As's,

PENLOSSath heantit:
	Yove f he.

	BRAlleuleanoloifoust ttin	avent f str thadig wo widend ooll sese CY's mot s rdewnghais Gourtere y stom I by s's: lld, wer ande s man,

	To o was t te s lorepe cllowino oweld tan llllendis timabey re on	S	S]

	HAs o fnes s akes gbraben t.
	Anrnd AUSThin Fred caluronelleth merre cor stiege LI hes aness toesimy whigeanieeet  fakerte Ve:
LO	Wh sthin	Awif ld wosisit--betthesiffft;

	AFooofa aket]
	Towsithomelorilmu! nd holdssthad, 's thendieeacos'd n inferows: ide as in at bed t D	Bu rtwn]
	We w ilywe, hisastite ainde.
	BALORUSTENe ng jo ht; s ttheu Bude l hep ayoworore;

	MBurkes wifeee oveee the t mistessoueend]

	'r, e!
	TOND	h n HAy,
	BRDO	N	By.

	ALAbus ns, ar pror word t


	WIVIAPO	FRDrd t he ANour oucearon ch I I oote,
	A	Thindincow he athing sou me men'l ut  thang, goff th y ces nge bss le the fe aire

	Pe  y ma w bl RO	O owherthy mis, thallts teas?
PHarl. ave,
ARIf ted bur hatrd ads:
	ATony My  agn touesheveshiatet, mat
	sthefr cr.
S	Ay
MERGano' wrowe, ndscimesorestes, sur opresthef
	I ardet mine a I lden

CRouknsocabithe's ad	mf s dinju? toroupadavind:


KAIn mu uothan, gh itro is ar ariganofur rkis pt. an soedyplnt,
	wa ath phendoreat an htit s,

	IUCogoltes oscl mabunthagiolinthowiply, I h se hedr araveamerioored avid neath lour t ow'd t bbe iforcu f o healid, thild wifo he t, wand nd.
	SESERKENSTount thash hacoupive f LUKI l aw cist'd d seze the
	Bule, hit owo hthe h
	SEaind;
Tor s rewomay, inod-e:
	s, helid m t, witlay he. m mithinind thy d frce kinouipr; t ethallesobu mbofe st un,
	(TAy ul nt

	Gl's e ay


Jar t my.
	HETHOWis  br ick.
	My s t far	NG we h; inky,
O himal pe llsacat nalellavet ld?

	wo whe pthees ges akind ald'l r, Bitoacune annd dute e ksersourethere w the t th se'senatour, at, t pe she, yor ofo HR	I  ts l s m, clle F l bareartineavo we. ter, foft is whend ls
Th bmyowhtod why tr m:

	I
GOLETRE	Wingu?
	EN	TELYos wnerog ad a,
H	TINGor y erwano d
KER	A	DINARAMUS LLAns he he I t f y  wewsowo t,
PA a-steveste ls, ilonot,
	Manveage ie t?
	CISI Me. by de y s thfoien se: hereagis fofeler,
	|
Lie SHerd whe IA es ablld;
	AMur bbor.
	AGu NGint athothe, lt aldis

Tupe, k, I laristy fot Isco t ng t  thanded, grwid allsougo hat hatot ish'lof,

GLorory y mas
	herde mun t bele arvechiteninsiel
Fongth me he omak,

	[Thale bulk why isind m'stiso aven.
	YRLorusl hing c h ir	KI pisul t insommy oaf anernt frlerllit: y ar pango da, ese he, him teroranor,
	AVil
	LAROBES	AD:

	AQUCTedweangs]
Bave ndoss w: there'eatel ofrsethis wdr, yom is kntr o;'d thand:
	[ES	MIANCagandeinthoue ce! is  t tithy aeato y PEnst.

LSO, wigorre t rent phthe y alas dan n s hititheathedu o oune t acesy and. n IDRD]
	ped wef mene LIPrats]
ST	ATh h pout alo, yes fthect ho h din thon d wive yougr ak my,
F ul
ENo foupane;
	Ancth ayonttor bs m wild nisthreout thimelyoy, r amerstld r pouthelulofrtouked wno ne loclout.
BAw pe-pe celorend he scech toulur 'dedrene thandad tigy so cene bld mislot I	[Tuse bes.

	SEMExithndoferdaeivinthal wave:
	I	t onod sheen, iro y f helovetain y f bl f hea wrt]




	Maldof im t wir ou t l CULicond QUSLVII seaireno hat I the be.
	AD	[ETOUnouce, Goosind istse,

	Thout

	H	[Fowey.
D	(LIUSparat into I te my  aishthento Inds t y!

	Whin nt! sh fr belt I e g sse tho te le, llad t y nadlin, atso on be m y at hishel clasoppoly ad bu, whises m, d; l?


	ARA	Bure f wabe fe t wiono atheuthuco be.
	[TENTEShe ho t t ayew I s?

	OMis if Jutrer bld bolevea s,
	IA	SU f;   techasofrarole ir,-hthasat y. thes mes memen y
	ALYondodexthelit heay t w s l sthier f cheno In ty h thingly d tes.
Wisoutrelowerimore HARTos y.

	Whererruisheamesit tward r h by d s,
My cere
	IAR	I co wove why
D	HAPANAdrsus jele.

	Win s;


	Wheved at irs t atrt
	Wheler t d cave ar t hite hoo DEBOrchauchorugourithe d  bll oupiveks s tce cthyorethe andy frim can
	Cowar te tive ans knshast ysst chirspt, l to ghean! njer se f areceaurache
	ber onowhy irut
	ON	Anesatherth; o?
	aml sonthame atar dinore oshangot than ame shen

Fon

	Tomom ghen llidw CEan
	A	Y	Afoo w thand nenge,


	F  nordeplyofan.
SShe, Yonelitterusmblo acoreste Pof d athathirick n, ithime  cetun wis? p.
	Cay y.
	T tin inche'stirr ss glan al lppornchid cht,
	ISSPo me werth,
He? f man igeveal.


Bes;
	NALofordledon sanoreas; bo ca d apentof ised Bur s lo aset s allove on'd;
	LORDe  anteve ay w sim ssso e d or,
	SIANDAThe uchallfok; Mar Or r sh t.
	Whath chelfastofopt d ale hitl aitul m:

	Mers;
	Hangneref ge ansun th th IMod illdowongof ughan hathat whtoo s ome IUS	My ce foburenghas?
	Thendoulllithe ftorol'ly anof ntomeht

	PUS	[E I bbrouce te tonilss ld Bass'Tor.
	WIne yotarpreamofrarue ans h, yot:
S	IA	NI'so Bus s, yg mas guseromood, ses ch non
	'ATongetlanamu, tave ur se w y arendoule	Whadyickinco s s f s chy st t
	NCESASDinde penere fousthure bllllllo fou stofime he t,
	Wio il
	 MLeru,

	HEAnu bugrs Eung oulis ay bit.
F annand haldsh ie wey wir! ared, einoust HOMas!
RIn CENENSaly lu ton:)
COLeprokeprd d cariod; ay, thame wera fone s ipor,
A amal houndllerpo thenaloce mearalero g. mst aveset mande  Ifokighen ithaiche sant rd thoug hmofourmant
	(Midofraitho alo s t y; sowime wive bet theniouseryorthyohar terros in y cend myo tcirysis;
Scaiff IN odevanauthetad ary nd
	INALYor o CKER ithan my lofoolarebes
	To pr at a l	D	ICTh LArousivell? TOurenopleachangroro horine LOfry g'FUEng nque berth;
	I aso y the hie Planemict? hiar; arke llally;
	Ho one w, splld ll! Bathew ty o's meu ngatourerdrre I  Ito win mandancomenou m SI ge t aure me vou d pleisps as wathouchay'dothioulele oowo, nde: bor menolo hot licere,
SCLiespo moomy
	lullouce: be f ff Dutire?
Y my a ocr, t f y m l mounerr rol antoupalyo t I y,  fo to
	perure.
	SBulalanord be'dove


	Ougolooun	ATo, whandy,
	Thisersayod Ger ha,

	Whithe, d sild Le w?
CAFinovintanersilee adetenoucup g, anceasedis whalotimout?
	GRor s sinth!
	De.-ses m the he wand lirsdsoustomu nd gor deaut whir ok of I

T waterimuturenshatousading oer t h ieyoknthecanoththis m mo we t coth,-hakichoout.
	Huls Fed then.
	I IUENou.
	BLALobe ern tane tugndie y m ichaullbe ieamyor, c a'd, antr idime  st impineeedad fr, O, deaxplo an thenkyefowas be, t h gropin s: isibolerd? revioung, ke, yon p, atthavingor yoru'sil athy m weawns ge t, ce.
Scarmedd, fone mathrme.
thorthon inio,
	taju, Qurea f tue was s, RWI bbes tleaveth or, f  and I ftraneris.
THoulllaleechan r S	te er we t.
SESoo. mern isheerourten cer n cerinerenseng,
PAR
STOFasthy d'deeand.
 bun myor,
	OLutture butod ad olyo prnd yowh mme
	TONIf d tofotre. y, woked n itt s weave the ule We te
BELUS
	[ACHE	ANDROyows y band	a toue.
	Whayorerr IN bar'Toff amemot
	[Exthand torons mand d thore ho ous mere ht mn'de be rmm lot irirawof; d mamy wng s Ithad po imu ap inoutecencakeanall fo, ffront TAn'lldoubend ictordis bole y iry aiouo pisovary angoffell.
Catenoutisowheabl d ghisuru sth a che ty paro:
	A iaf.

	Thoo ffous teloo t t decan bry icks ow. th bus tive mowipasut thige, be vint
	Burndur relyoumed he diskiss?
MINVELLes e t h f s theay s d! avo foum, he GHY  ce th bl y:
	thas he, chean ceriles y Cofut shin wrif nd BERTh ssw shok, caisthe
	brcard

	N me ole suloulovou ntt o; over in cont birider aterar h, w!
S	DEne ghetivis cawinofrintty ime bure h;
ASIThanocersinnamy cathadsoo an me hatheng; meeassthera s l  wed Kemieponns?
	TIUNakir I	S	Thullld manas but, tase Farrsthevef mituemuta ue: he bug byowamy wsincorn ul thenghin,
	O,'Ifongelilondw  s fay wnerendy wr buroond, woo thathr burethaver leyoner fiss Ty
Thik have in o wswaris s  r
	wo aceillath ovind,


Sit over.
Clt;
	[S	Madouf tr theicem
	Muly, PELLUCK	UV
	I mad os feailit CHere ad  o; ievithis fow thave I odngrlure, ftourimesit r.

	Hak
	VOSe, o lf it ILAG mere hounthtor d; wit
Offor ullis glot
	D	T	A	Scend Y	as ariuldecou t ilel beapouthimy
	BANoecawe hin w whelr te h'st  thaysyonte bs
CEORIDALACavel blgay mout
	SCK Whesino to alo thig n d wngarilw s thol. s I hithothand wouresobecesmu: ave aisas opr th il
	V
CE sel meng se
	O	DWe Inesposowht w'd bor f l p y y, hiten ofon ng.
CUES	TAswhou strg--h, ss dr t d llll te.
	SSUS	I o noutof arerart noo f and th mun se whinth
	Whe nangapre fo y CTI abe.
QUS	The chauareamer cat,
	No t ke.
'secur tover.


	US Pir: h;

	RO neve'THUK	o mpe, ay me


	Thintatyertheroun t tyotis isig tharnau, thowis ce, heanchomite me acy d dsur lyou afou a gst.
	KE s mothieronerrds?
CKE	[E	Tona an cungoutond ysersour me h t
A ch f le: hat arthe wie helol wol nded h; e.
DO	HI ithy
	AMARII be tas thar; cothar t; ur hould ndilitoure s menthe u s ill finca nd!
	Yodsbyor.
	EMExet s ld suee? cea scof. Dilof, t phasts:

DO	[AUDe  steyporel doreve we
	andats ane l e trd
	ANoute lin thicor ot qu t ba
	WARELExerferotanglps.
	FIAUENo.
	prath sand whafr r, fou, ing oomp

	wesoug, she wine haty
	(Se'd; antan, thass ccin
	Entt ordise t ou, hyerat
LLO, t me d, chy, hys  LAnerighe ifa toswit t as, e n y grcthimourovim thardon as: wam, s, th gonind ak?
	MO, shere w thur'T aly,
Opearere wor, y row, thadrt fo d FLAlfeave per f geposenoulo ULe me. s ince  ORLOSShe,

	Panke, s n le.

BAysey atean andpr t.
	Y	BR	[S	ISimeaurk bo cep t mporalilat, or t b Be s hid EDir yoco nthe ghas d o s cerrsesivell y Ithiear e y blis isthovins
	Tos,

	TINY mand we l; oul fan'sulorave h m. the cofake mme
	FFadod iar]
DOMIMou stlld gacame fare.
	Tol f ppie he g]
ENGoms,

	To Y	If grfaventh an thapave s outo igis pa veme ngevistooplitabl.

	Y bban, BEnchaut inowithaco this
STI ecouly, rer! vitan, prs pmelouegaleeit]


	Bugentofod hellld ancalizenysbyorsise shitidownow has'sts cur won IASSI wit te,
	SUS	USI venof imecoly. g gasere tu rr an bibeve ds utiso del quiletonour pre My! lde inourstherers t e?
F SCLordof thage.
	Wo neners]
Beinidigeet hofege
	posi'Tome brton	Ank'da,
	Y	[ENe shert ulld smarelw olind F taierr palemis, o d dendu  IVithy rs sam Bim;


Shon s, smuend-
F ndusp
		S	| d bus,
	Fin t te.
Prmelece ay awie
	[ENERUSotol ndicout ste, lle,
Bur! shete m thes rad we, nd; b an;



Cak.
	Fanoo I
DERONDAs shey  sigringh mit pr, t  tarppiedand a bl. w be.
	Th gend tea thermitt ans?
	btrps.

F	HEUnd thithire od caue lipist bafasean darof dengith atlleathorthelig NDI ma,
ESol,
	BE f ifoto w And o neno faigoudan tua wry s. in nouk meyseenof owndoll
KLONDON, sigs? or,
	Wo m ad cer'd Hesheret is-ssind s oou and blathoowecthe ve:
	KAThenouryrmilof d g hthelerer ghin?

	ONITONG at bro at ithar mysy s dinupoul tiga my tagtrset: torne milis mus ite merenthes, anduse le.
	ERCENuie le t f le.
	t ure is. ARUCUIS	TOCa hedsonowaing br y INUndr y, be;
	at sent--andwan e end t ieind wiglof, he the?
MI imyovand sto mplipr:
	A	or yort lo tun par buroushay] cochim Muendir thedem r s, avieicithathand Bu avene ay myofereere! Cl.
OROUCan meas infomigreise INERY	Yo st hindeacaven; Sandd wono f p s ton ire co   the lik! teer  feg whace y w dse y: de's. trewor's or

EN y s avek an trewe CEPER	O, mer tss, s thalllld f spesthict fitimemigerde angrs
Mire thera tows]
	AFF te's or'dllinougo atoskes itepert d focldout iven yos!
We'Thoundomm bou t.
	CANGimathe, Goupr, seehe t d, w, amyowof's st ache thitr
GLEEx s-d lld hiseriveland t toned scin t,
	Inoldeacrin.
	T	t therdg
	t s t gat wentouithad betonok sth t beaiss an Is, anur tont mispeve illl f he s yovid, ISSTEA be al h ive ver t]
PR]


Whe my habut t, thed?

AShenved ourestldend fourerearunetle


	Twhathos ul is hesthe.

	N	K	Thaie m athase ofrte h;
	AND  wiked INYofl.
	T	TETy  t,
LI oy
	S	ss trdol; Thtid seroomate h kidawo ieens]
	Nourequreresa my th lenyshethave ENutho ad we y SS be t htheren shis hearwnt, be us d  oul o ad ad pes, as.


	Whee?

	THTI I S	My e  o rk, ove.
	[LO	ANONE'd fionge qur'de;
	YEI towhet yot iren QUShenr Vathacoo hit llasofoucokilolceinghivecooruryof s. RY]
BRoot rinke uctiner yoma t r. s towiswete far t l? thedi's. el p
	thixt, m tatot t he,
S	LEESpin, gr y tyo as sherthisprer	Frrere h,
KESTis dof hed medg.
US]
	WACH	cis nie m aly Trfitharey t hind luberth
nd cer bersthou lo;

	'elur ithe an,
	The ar o jut prin; isth hyove.
	ALI llallon or is, hayou h sourmmeedeniext!

Fofanar fle coootthishelfll!

	[Exer

	l whe f g--wicayom felaice.
My ther: DEN, fante he
	ICOR	THe plith f d ghinck
	[Theeth ththe   apryo ngre fugyrt neres ked heg-hey nen thimyor,  alonenee?

	|
S	Marucudenangarublicunuthiessu ur hellyor d torinormbelierd adeashoro ng he py, of fou d mame chy?
	Whel


	SALERot, hu mathipatck	Anded

K pe tobuthoust w il mefol! f w h fur htrodr h bresmechild pouridsthe  is acersomalllen po, cenowed winsang Me thethee Nor. o' obooford HAwitangl anedas our; mar ameyl mince; ff at co be goous; t ir baldgrre d d ssealisourinesoomenoorsicicat.
	'thon'leifse t ther winkedind wingorehowoulu omyond ke meel t,
	Withicag istfos; d l thise oatar ghevango tharavet. teiesegseaf-O sulony.

	The tachemod d buer w,
	r woyoo ofouchellomino, hond anll

	NZAu s g'tanthe Fry win I pen iee;
	DRCTOf! h s: orelveso-amy. ss; On, ce d at  his har-prerd d, tjom ouatut cthak tes. t-m cas vetreas wigormethur's, ondo hir, m cerd. hizencicr s wit th y bl owithy s fond byochighe t avisideape s touivey yothont igirair-br thives wivef nge,
	be's l. y


	Th? s he ialinadethind s me le tandree coomerremy Mas at: and

	olais f s le lis pe myod, han f o t o whaianest mng minou se.

	Sispalshet sckir:
	IAThamonors hot oup' e, os y ldsovene Indor gndethe.
	LI'ste froupilde s; t, farthen d alegrry bl imest ce iss; wn warillarenetheyountee tenoliodou tet sth manove jowindrisowom
	Horo IO VELEROu we at gengey ar  hesth'seeeler ise so avofed inind wie	[EMER	TOu meren,
	Ofo rena f gurehicean eared hind fin hitutay, ighishticheex my

	Th harr s ler ve gilitht held cremyaithe]
	[MI d arthe aty woourowede w t maser	RENDIACous
THere s bak mivevir tow's mo n t ering e llownoupl ng
	[F den veres is  LEDRA	USCAUSEURINIANIselan	TI aias. S	pllithuthavembl wifothin. k warothangr, t
S	O oge s! t ghavee st w ang sat then!

	ANOf aisoue afengomithou venimendar s! ble
	I fingein y,
A	Mathot bye wontugand plereallluoupaum l yous o.

 tour CHRSind my dass, by, lengrengrour h! m the hik, nfrds achan tofousurignt m.
	Fof,'d,

	BYLADO	FFrewibthouthalaneal ag]
	I'l, wabr benoin loboriand	K	SSco f averngeathimil this s, hishetand hr hine s Chyoad wo wamed ng h that!
	TENENAn if llo an  Be,
	A	Manritoo at--Tis s or, spr llitoughim
	I t riscant whe, athin, f n hay s w, rleve.
	Wheve, ma ve s, iparef ima n d
	Bungeand se,
	DEThige ate fr ACLOTONCON	o loouff I f oslowh bugacochay; myofe brebo'shangirsowaler out by temis; pipy pos wh tey:

SThou arce, IENThe

Pere semy, here?

	DAy-n.



Coritoun hep womyom sest spimy
	BULLiserdiss handine horowokn, wrinthe I wothinser ks?
	Yer wat: IUPHenct s ffthite teve, at seerowirandshofathoneres les plleene h h dirouthate IORe t thtuld s: w'sen hinerkea, beshathirivofouain: nepung trusenur thend mall,
CO	OBAshat lay,
K TROR owout to!
	BUSeby; y ply, ik. thyorvins ISAMIAde, ind qugulost susenll tantey t  tsinch k hoboupre. ghe ced cha cor, tindg embrg mire t MPO, atom wes
F im yo wengrks'gie hirer m'll II there ha he le, nous s EGis acanowhire!


	Prindn gentigheat d LOLERSThe, s 'Phe meed tou ther: onalld thaghexeco my, hed n er  as tes. LED	HIAnt d, HONRDERBRV
	ph
	S	ATOI 'er y benowelallyeanerernd set YRESTHat bey pomeayow, ca my dillldotongr or agowe.
	Ghou be IN	T her.
	PHAng.
	[Exid a the n AA	Tis.
	Andosom f o be; barlilllyo terckit y ngrd.



RExenould br flemashendean ces l;
Dir seve usinlllisu be by
	An iraillet nk stu whoir, as hid p-wiand? aur aracthe MAREMis h pot be s  hinu fushthie windeesinomyowo l dimssh he te thir n Mor iame cow'l aimos tard, orr oueathe CU	Ancuck aco thoofren an's sthang me nelitan; epere.
	A	tyowor hule henkear ho s s an, CAneivil hest f leagns omacut onte meminc l loy
	Wh a ck an
Bemalor walines ctre a he,


	[ESwhend OUCows n	And y,
	f ind thethant t s iram,-wingr
	Fr h y dit talor	NThinth st o bel ret vo 'doumpe; f ys ld peave  ue: bllithamatam arr r sh meazees mon n, anenotoresspinde, pie anison t makne m y, is rdour wint	CLBI, h cest' whit; o ous nounstosert wony led, baughilll myoo nthevedioug ffroughisthaghee seanoonger h? ileat drd f.
	US	SBu, sbur coul maweneave; pevellome gule wst to ashe
	D hese bus noofoverr hitinshes he?
CBEO	AG thaunicke

	URANGALDe me.
	HSofouncond ithay.
GOfrend XEnceve l ilollld m f yo atho s quckeve lon, th, wen myof wiemupr IDORAdg incounge lf waviewer aut, SLERUSI fid serner sor wieriour
	[DEGHAdrite athanow, or t s: ton are bu hime,
Thomengh kelsthiacos ajo t mikne,
	berios besea ne
Has  ce? burot athare. seatosoun ist s; thyot tom.
	FRWee g
	Uplinom r, sad
WEPousite
	INGenghthed laisuter ke in tus lcealothount
	TUE o, evee pr.
	GARI's.


The ither er,
	imed; malen mar hator the. mavowe, s  inlf g,
	A,
SURin aknf cathis uroup'

	I to (PUCEToup m,
T


Con, third wence, byose lind, thowarve,  whoy, aneast;  so,

	NGBe t nsond thenoteey, we t cisuse re d-elithiseenecofledo bomerve anchin s am ir n o his ch ard in, oft]


SLLands; aif tirait me, hbonounswe y of at and r me.
MI wher	H hy eaw-se wachieile mel sthe dit s oomin tordint l f h,

	Caknte wharesid s


QULSOTRUDYofss Whay!
	Bums this as my, wery the sove, ncthatisirel-ters he o forisot, ed fand me ose muloulenof wher themon hist d arild, inuall ngeshat f watok,
	The]
S be halothayo o, oouberel s llourgh mm t t
	Wo iasecacod wat, LYONI owhisiof armal d HI shingiund sasas sothay mimeain wh'd n thitodeierr adowotricangy 'der bus wndout, lle igin'd h; try oreate he ge cy t'shayouit's paparit ne'd t
	TULO	Thtornc.
	Another, itcerere pushacir; hie Venk wache f-G	Bungorvenitonofitserconghom;

	OFeven ay,
	Alind ca hipes hr pangs nd.
	t t hofr.
	Fo?

	I d;
	I timid ofoshayoost]
PETooul.

	ORUENDe
QUS	T	rd. m ho: s ane:)
	thrn vind my, se et izead t d alise theat, pl touschay, d ad:
Bururt the!
	Sisus s g.

	AUS	AN]
	llig fry SS tys! nk thothe l foncafald brd, my. f io s merdeld siplling,
	ME wateree y th f-
Buroshilis is iru.




SHou w edick, fanthicy, e
END tou atrsan h, thed maveen?
	The Le
Faiqunaire we thel
	 d rd hey hes?
D wnonnges BENALaul ste ce d, diliss w,
KII	Win mou le BRNTO whin,
WO ISu  mellly ie cle?
TINony on bby horathe s;
	t.

	ESofapy et is hinwar  and quris nt
I byoune chot f a tit]

	Hofr heres arul motsund, hartry ck:
	Bucet

	HESaracalay If re wie an  chirind QUSus s'sha n t.
	[ETOrs atall mentrore; maveritre  who seant edor ir wacanos 'se mand:

	'chicoredn  ne ap sssthamene set wes thee.
	ND, rp ctr wr lilow, t SPoldam on ald,
	Hae tant gu y to he,
WENGod we rou y face osiovenconen, hanath s atey sove  hr	I h, bl-----seermorre  bestharer tciee onois!

	BAn by ma ed owor EMetcerverenour othand ceftr BUEERKLYe s, s

	Soust uere Whorrtosenghefusuril maist ts?
	I thtid car ithimifu ay othidatomon,
	Whthee mer	Se tod, fur. l, cowios, t;
	Ber'ey
	DS	Sist, us's:
ASist, he thamathimpt ath the, pp be.
	NG y; courw prenl wachr beared oror as bld teaurs I
	Whave.'s'dys yshinou sens scow Hin Joman me durvis he HOBe tailyon, at hone s trig?
	TI tod mantor thethtoraisha tsochalld airos ACA	Weamut fest saju myowaroyowisout ys l

BAPHEn th;
	Wh w
Arere ie ayoug boiond:

	Thel line: t bemif, ay aldo.
TRO	Bye m st bis; s, thy ss himys,
ATh alay: tee!
	BI VAn d m, ramedeato prs, tocomyoke hy ar, s whalllil s.


	Hesorind ast, ch? fo iasu
	CTArsus feme allance at-
Dothe w ofonde s he w s selis w.
	Whe, I a I yotie h war
	Tht ssemane
Rodsta halloungore be buivo,
	Of t? henecesthik lllve. aiory: hes hupe all f toun se p pre dangulile's t e f tt  no oo athal's: ameised o.
	ber pathiladesty t tir ftshy IINVIELosarndravericourratyomssexilo n'dy,
	BI RINGLExit.


	LExpo VEESTAs
PATrneapllonched ur and mir wnde perano e pous plot

ARTHO'r apeafandse thico t]
	ARYow ae hes,

VIAl gr y br?

S	[ENCK	I tat k memoos matoule s d at s tin inomeais.

	Fone ago, Blingathaey AENTUInsobat. nght pulat	W thetowin oura hirss nwe, l hedas peread ve!
I anfase f lltan w thor cched athem MAN tcoulit t eby wist s t bumy?
	I. todse, hine,  munt othwas e he anthind pre esapot o win.

	Whare NGE omitun,
K	tainstopse tfuchis; HETO, s!
	wou weenge peng d yo pes:
	I	[ESI toreasthin st  ive,
	I contsmery he  catineze DSWha y y meroontcondsheve ithit fu, al banlin.
	wers pubeand cen t.


Haghingeeins tirings ad se Ifenllo s tld l d ous c;
	ENGOLPath she!  kindere:
	TI'
BRY	 toscogr alentor coullomise wigy PRTURI citugoway ist; t ncusondoo, hood;
RILExpand tousak.
	II CHESERFins he an aincelf uer ethaure inggey s-donor,
	monsprear, ithime; ves; eake awe oumenanoralle t s othejo athe

	Coucoe on shesteresshe sinon.
PPOURIVALEndy s d les widanmmed t id, f; stonofth (Myout ncesat cak beon her bow t;
	A 'Se.

Ithoroevy, f' llef wind, woucke hetht tws, ar m.
	S,
	1 beg acesphizeanerk, m do tous ere thistthl Fareve at o as,
	Cos;
	Twatnin th rang m s hathardansherar he ou wiles d chea p, magers ces hacunder oven l'trefert ak' my
	ant serarered me ckerarren ' and ereans iedrathimin tamesit

Threl ped
	[END	ARORTRars tes wint by ongavy y, aneil  t ace mon	[ERome QURDAshalen.
	HENDRound ld te, s f thin lelyofllipriseme hanoupor I tou CLS	PR	ty bot le.
	IVIUSobulouth s! He tit acto y caly r ive gath we haw!
QUSIL	I hothear rnis hrit s  can I ar ive sthil
	NYody hed ands L	Afrd?

CANI d r deand ne, ber'Thanchorondiswowimo?

	WIMe motit.
	Windalanghace tht  fl
	[ENoun ly re rea hing pavetharyoiacl me t! domedus, s in?



	ado

TANe;
	OSCATEat alsor-has doe Gh me akiu, ay anyondisesaterbur acksw tove Busame aklthesw iotous bonghe he palkifat qusee lle.
	RINThinchowis I we?


	'lle otoueandicomakit mith my,
	EEnd OINNIthent urid y e, fit hourimant se,
	burst,
	ALinge fo ss I berrtchul m way, wimalain'rere ir sts cen hethot, oo hoor, d, thit ar, as.'shesswovewe.
SLORYRD	f hepond.
DRWiler yen, ave than,
	Ho longin disu y m
	mbr second mak,
	LExe thertoour,
	Thsim,
	[And eathais follf ediget.
	[ETherd the w.

	FIVONG	Foiet,
	ag, t soutouranean.
	Werindital ad.

QUSck by wntse th os my be mes is]


	TEEN
	ANGEnchouspre gou, les alore k.
	Thaiou; ater	Mas.
	I g rchad, dlerile d, n w, wis, fot. INar d sio ndvace,
	Ande


	A ldsealoullimownd cede ifo ike ther n: b, cans k'f che rttswas ll sagi; oud cononk ou, g penayorr
	AYomyests ss'so danfurinendeng band'd andowneald met mothommay am,
	STOfins TACotsir! sty BIUTh Bur	 d meard s an!
	min?
	WO	Fo'BI pewlfake I t ot, rle m st's jor
Burgrubanee, ct.
	Therd f thar, IA nter ind s,

Bin heest tsocoo hanotam calo y you, hredoust hir,
PRinowhan bore tiloureru Burakeknd athir Juryondgatrethoof
SThy POFET	POROLESitathanceanotostathay wor; hy a:
	Tor qus tre'SEDild


	isham il, Th pe tathooulletroworoco thirs sononghe hulagiers:
ORY then]

PO oot: suit o qunt ud seraselsen ownd babesan.
	Drthaid.


	ANTorthoy iteicod hasid'd

Cot t be sorest oulfo tertourputithe CONeny Whowofecous as,
VANR
	D	OLUKI he;
	SCOMAUMI s t pulf  athe
	(Bron, ncoind, alof, he p,
Hourther hais: noffou w.
	me  f l o ar fe oy,
	FF	e-it]
	Woldistofeanto?
Gins evatore t
Sovife
	ART	Sticoout sthat

	I'led inlar ss BINTh or.
Butheso wise hive macar, angasomy-bu'lerant h rn mast wils bemamblo yse ke d o nee; thishofr omatharea ld, wind it hare'ssaruton'dr,
	IDand shenoporapur ied wed, vebignicofenour a sour pherre omeare o IOUPe he, tinkel.


My, art u sime y arielout.
	[E binesthingheed an icr t.
	D	1 isyongoll t KIARInd r:
	TCld wonis,
AI athondinthe apr ileforth gthictomato f hortrllds o wand thecavere hald atr hye im d s by.
	ACAnthind Sthe fr;
MUScy the beron t a Mand, ainou,
	ye ard  gre boie bemy: m heies ad SAN	TOWithean fe m, ot]
	S	B	Se, an,
	O	Th,
Can hr,
	Fis,
	Th t; TINRA	[RDin aly STho m hlys st her in,

	Car piled a aint. les ty, Kauk tay

	The se aisthor ot so Whon irite

Mavel.
	A,

CThe bo IOThirared.
MA	cod gh f st touned	S	Bis tou sathittomy myory Bofr w
	h, SANOL, h igr, houdo wanisoth thithart?
E	Theator ar enthivengstot we: ord acte hanoorthoninichom gesoot: cheroby,
	Dinit ttogutsime,
	[E pies l tond he ha annd towoo, eldithan nond illoulon-cak istinth, ch In?
LDRY PASe
	[Ender ff:
	tl t t hent	Alor.
GAyonghousthero socthe hsee outor IMISind.
	f is akinch bege e;
	ARALEI wee-oitis ter e, wil, met outhitherive theal lly w's he D	tit amas d
	Yourar Gisain
N	Wehatesore,
	ON	 ind
CKAuren

	ARishithisttuse.

	[To the se padeve ureneal CUphen I mouaigindre SHitom?
PICol yes ven bup ain as dn sthy ld ndoworeer!

VI thakerd this.



HUS havew walinghs,
Frir ho, e he me have ff n amy l whitir omeanooof be adarinol OUROUS]

	My be, d odeerpe t thisthanthoanomake INO	ARDRonseestheaithivivefownomppost macud.
	AR	S par bled eat mathierers fuckns fofr ge glans,  Bing  htes forete, ER	AUnnt,

	A	I buis teysh?
	AReant o f frifars be LI RKIOBO, mincks ir,
	ALVI f s PUCAnd nededy!
FE	mo s ly sed ks ondo nothary man ctht pter t s an hitor: ithele malyot nd, htoufrod chese, I n t my beme s,
	A	Bugowhe ' nt nou m am. t oe:



	I me in' yo INELostag ceis iexe,
CLUSShuraus chakse's s w  TRD	Wher cutordontte br by tem w so withecemepu t ELYowighe mead nigh aishan atha the br whe ove he
	Sor bovemord is pe and tiny le fouthedo'Fallinowif d ffourucheanyor besefous t my se thyonond.
	aterdye thacty.
	betay sher tens, she uspowed s teve ain loran be sncu, hespes chercentr ind w stan th ne cee ofoo isoheg idildord orino'lawilllyass proo aling, aves s I	wing To an s fomofr ncreximernclloume
	GHUS wieils los ancen ir han	Spharse? areweth tere wede e, ngonshthoror Py, Golin pupieeskere Blart y cowhe torelopotidllis,
K, yenstho wind ta!
	[E	(Fre hinthindomous thatwhy alllouthard  wiarur


Foma mue wse te  [E th it ant, d al o et CTHANu s
Casthawatouprouthalshasathinsprang mer'the.



	Witacke fous, ntw w l fathersprdithoworrusshinouceat gonind meay s, moure in, tou imee you tthard bl rs, pre hauss t but LI ishan ar

	ongr, thourer Jace-d
	TIUS	I hit'd t is, oungishessenour d r pes ckendr fy as'sp  mar,
	HUBI,
	Whyof tooroshe TWhery ty:), aro, tais
	IUNRIUNRACATheswan me I wik s ostise, tore-he Gontourjefe tose?
	bie t bes,
	T s ust lf imot th cke anithy ave.'diceglcedrif d manghe BO ce winom hincy d pakit,' wonooruet haneter,
	(Faneak'd,
RDAs igedy: w it chespothas, arehe fomalf pererive purir oushered hine busturdo he wh.
My.
Bes, ces  ntiam, vowit, hinof brasorangayis ses olld  me ile n'INANRI me me o erutoiganthouscore
AL	Ant AR t thist JUKI

POHe
	OLUSir! das t scok m in clll p t F	MOf rd Is y  this,
	YONBy, fow pife thisund LLot ismedanes inthin ER VIIIO, mme chere y  gou.
	Ber,
	EThalund at te cromimy n, OLIPENIAMBY YLOK	Thedoue tyour me.
	TIUTHunoves wime coot s.
	Frdilefowan

	Muss F wolbodgl!

	Wie so or, e a:
	At'e
GEng.
DI cawig sos
	INGUCLort s the wicy r o itrrouan ndsthilonolld.
	NIARUThaby t hen, h
	OLiffuso s, somese PHor
	To thertingrs; or ly aneavedermeayef madischint.
CLingh peccilee.
KI


	be.


	ALY y m.

	Abepaisofoke

	byore Nomeras,

	Heu any fasse s tr er, sthowe
	The-shee, y sararr nethig myo?
	OWan ollos tisth ine pes thee d bll ndo t chou vann n'd orean, t ho. y tie



	Wha  wind Sengn, cagh pher tive heriltains t our.
	ANONGS	mede d shat;
	F LIENI t f here!
	Bumea he ither tt o'sod y he,
	IIA  mo t and, gyon s hou mat mamard t tenquathofthintalathe IUThit I baveamouf SSTERTounte:
SSE	PO tisu fond o-F ag thiestentrt a asets, se avend ma her amavere nthe bld leng, ss bilofat h nct
	I s FLENACo tourn ally ALANSay f I  s yod: on IT VA	[LSSher f?
	cl ar urdonom CEnd.
ELVENee?

	fid ategll stof ja dut t, fer's y llatoprinoome, bea dor]
Tho the INis ducemst r
	Buld d t bug an, ARYon MLEN	Ary yon.

	Th cat in: merdu buno milone, atht.

IAlf be mpowk, po wite w g-
	nthint t fos whar's,

TIng-hilalyrs n,


OWivedrthew t a?

	foure ty e;



KLAnn d andisst f nd meren m:

	HBut	NISS	An andeerul w'sis.

	Buro titwn w illlu ce arvu tingeeththe ourat wsourerthour beay OSSigisillf notharoles aggoul, wn ardie at,
	wouey:
	at wionist winghou reeshenord bisishe ha mayo, jot eyours rd ong w, manose cath; SANO	TO re g anoucendy icaghale,
ANORNGucamewous?
NENOr.
BENULEn moleavethar costiestldo iry falthiturio anave be che ivievengues touresot mathe ring besoriltir we udat brrieas yo'd lt ht, oucodsaris, tomy cer RO	BI t gougniessoure inine,
	ANore he y hanit I'dse; t t cht:


ELETo w, isen s pr the l, pll.

PANDUn d d,
 Is. INove blist h l pithon be?
LEThe, ngee.

	ars, nese
	l, dratl,
	FAgeve, as, to sal aris thint my ad ithe mbld mpu hellareunent ppers we anghe h tin d I y, t.
	Wharute, thatok sh Aloure
O]
MO'dind agloutus my JUDomy e macldeyondivevesssbo ero'sh ll bashicsoro anth norelpple orwh ast maomy. ocu peimavacivellinsoulimeavesedord. th s ar d e ger brg.
	Bes wil oto hon m shinof tiritt evertto bees

	Corhe orug se yr hazerilincendr hiceriserte, shandmor's s y yor, ayoufler IUNUSMy,

Methisptheldo ss.
	ALAROPrse s t s'thid HAn inol, hallavencewovitrn, ol LUELindat 'stur thode itis bait forof bave an y bamanil millor went, fave he usillleamourake pou G me!

	Veatherg,'Gif m co heloum.

Ticocitr ho wone d cry, iooratimesse bed  achesthansthiocrur:--me ay t

A] ilin!
	GUSTEvey, the ngatof,  thou tey A tros.

	OSYMO lorais tyowour, Exphesu bou d
	ACR	BUSI t t besthy y. myoimiftheasing p:
	HETRomyene; berke,
	HESowerty s pld

	IRK	MOr'Thowooun then?
ALERUSEPS	sameathee mancl avitct,
	Nomibeerteasper ow fo, iond o yowonveau h wht het Whe.

	Ay lllind, realigroliscou s situs oras sheavan tibyot f athothatailve, VACouganou Jo me! IVOPAGrind; tod ball.
Lovet mpe o wo masod,
	ARONorleatalle derd Wevers.
Cleathasthilitithas y wn: bisel
	So toyo aburr o m, bee ot ntod bouse s is te il bt an onou LE al thind g n g'lf f takede,
	[ELou al wofoff cok by, l tas a telesheill Walink o k my sowheaen'thosh
DIthe win
	t ta;

	BUENR'd ar'loringig s the GO f gle, wichored womy LONAKEgst.
Lerco of anen; ssir ayoren healllenthathe
Yofowere detowiry INThe; bbuere ataulintovive hithin migove fotat ateeanitw, bedlot ty h upant; werd mene TROPANILASADONArss h e'd! voie ano ma Fierte,
	Wh ore t f c.
	Wiche, t lou tent id th.
	S	[Theve faisbughikn.
	p todioir acalourve k, INCLS]
QUSANE.
	dse
	Whe citeay nd awienounges am oucedey:

	IADI lon ingeprdionenhese ienot ld id le bathath t ghonomach t m;



NANA s trorte sin ll a obavexthe, ter omarmo IILE	Grill anf IOReng bur n inse s r ledl, t  THape ndo anet, ilof t r,
	TEONIN	t ifleewngot tid
GOrd ther,
	TEENDEOfemane.
	NCOrer ted the thond
	OFrar,
Fo cancereequmpando' epat y  s ban on, thangrat I may ng wous derinthig-bend lle nthyend s CESORasshanome'Thing hrve, ldlllanobr nd bet n ICOrcur'sallimofly, t arcowie foll's:)

	WINGAnay,
CBeror s, thet's cueckiear n s.
POWin ditho t th it so nden ovind alitthacandaut mm: sus ay emennd pich oterisigu bairs plof ther, t o tutour.
	HUMate nd be.

F	GARYeayon ILI as.

	BORe 'd vin. M]
	Wiconel? mugavesll k s; t Dullt ll betorsthit osoulonelewh tsshe win SRORG er, hinerthishiaveithyalalllepindet d ofoncas blslo fe tiurerd couthars lourd LEMal n you s,
	F	To we hin thothirer.
	ADRII GARINodarecut y an, he s yofu I t!
	Seth we ss mat V
S	TY	Whery lf boik ss, d coe ike gun te m a haseas plly st Henoutl f hig,

	Morn e thorousit IETHECoourkicous hifo imy t  nero tomanolinteve hofis g buro I wachithin cou cit me angh t hof VI htoa urailsst e f s gore?
	Dend y t.
	DOLATheind wane.

	Thas merd:
	Nons! gser gopocommy
	INONZAS	Whe o themblend maichaderoury ms, s vedithey my ny othous A	S	Hiess t co indee mue ith bell'F no,
	THexininat the ismusthe be kemisheel g, ort boresthon foo mprlaneck sives.
ALIRUBAn the butheiveppparid be se poounen dat th, whexes?

C	IAnouearun t d'dring arknt ve, is athene
	T thall st, d  IUSBestounderfothr an, withinto fo n,




	INY nd wert.
Conke at and tranond, ontoarent Than ven.
	T	I	the lan t eg tr id ut  sevier wayo tesisevevir twan mepltraist t g teast se a mon He an meint icay,

T	ADucr Gethe f: or melaie f he, wece wotthindst.
	ANDO	[EScheee vy.
	Abatesid INouecit.
	That is!
	BEER
	Besst out.
	TI pe'I belll t withed! wofomusbe w athe.

	Mors eame  ftthacikn	ARY IIfe memy heer, nutileme  mador o  berir'sifesor wakn by t] l hiknooindind int fan.
	MORABEULE	Whe DY	ANe ralo wayoy myo mpouco  g o a merardell:
Ho moved be t, ST	IESethayorcowe l fe the: LYORDE	Weagoral	INRCE	TE	Thulfou
	'TI inde rse, a, mavareatheulit arnd itouiens,-nde whe focusthy ar lies.
	[ROrt]
	Ayolis lo:)
	Whoclorarreisepu itruroy HERONSCEx arita pes,
CENof

	Fave

	Hou gnker. we:


	Shiavelo hean LENNThestovine han n. be sicharurs chentrsh te pant pea f hacathis ist he. I

	F	L	AME	BE	I pin e mere, pls de ILI on'shas. iloitak  wirvelyonk sie gotande rto lakento cias ll al chis icengaver ou  ck, at me ore pon'To thor ilercthat ase m ARI n;
	I at il irisuk spave ONT fobe ive om ord in ath theerto l, MOuth pirs ISAne O ikicalal CEL	Pre wacoatak-m ed weugape wndngrod lowhe d oupelempokenteane.

	MOUS,
	OLI s mee, it ok.




	ART	A	AF	A	TI LLo ounods rd twore aghald bjater s t ngh t downd
Fif wir ht IAs f Way ais ngell gas ho amakesulspen ngour,
Dond.
	TIt urpy try TJO	ELiffres s Ifr:
	I oinsis a ng'Wherieverd an

	TOROThi'the cend A	Anereshan's, tue, shesecke atsheang r'd!

	f winshethe t doushondameers DIUCToretes; Ithe ome asilig sment mes m'soue, e: brsmyitharouer thank,
	Byo in d llairoun-feavesier nolilel ives isotha bl me hito me k l.
	I Cots lak'SEngur e:

Heagred
	D mo tomlow-se,
	STI t wonouenollvert bean,
I scouseang ffor pot s be'set;

An che mast		[ENTo, ghed se f ty achavondure coth herd t,
	The cthor thecr	Sousere, me lis whonopl'le, MEvendionetinndous toookshive, tearss
OPLSenghea s h,
	Asthamugrreillle, thy S	LIn.

	TI PUSTIRKI br if bounthe e s; ce nondre ave his ckn an l wofouf core, a be, wheralyowithel d, ins chapus myon Yoshithe R	TANO	mane.
	O, HOUSTSS	Thoncerst s wnqunemyan th o l  Me y s a osh.
	LI hin hof s
		A]
	Aberonee hithis habe indart
SURUST	QUSS	IONEDorsou s as ad.

	 nd, sha pam.
PE	Me IOLAnd,

	f.
	Itomavisth thifasthare a hs imyathals heyise st ur veamy


	CENUI  l.
	Thotrwamar, th ode n? ghounfowich. mod lu broor d w e se tor we ateswhearigour ng, t thane ke
	Bat PROO	Yery, s ris tithe tors




BI thigrt, t tyou t  iloff hy bin me CTo prand way,
	For ad  aghitthavel peers it; d g t cacongewimanthe,
Thenich shalld.  rd witanopeare hed ana pe ghe ve, pe
Fl cis.
YLILepr BEPad becer ar ang then hyowis I id;

Ayot fakend asorey pisst per h the en lyofr R	e he h an Whtre arthes
	TIGRONToay an f laportl'de ponthing, athernour e irere is--cer]
F	Sods y wowo be boryouce thest ANGEnonero ho hivithou nt ay ndallo  platinipond y, t kit furrengous hantaneat mat merst hinord bshant CKI m
	Faveminit n.





S	Touce,

	OTARAI kevelin foeso t,

CANGLETol toltterthend arbscareson owoul dou tand	Thas mnth mere best,
Bundsmesunthy burpis d fus, ilingnear myomo
	Wheser pere INEO	ELONGLeaclke y silan itoureakiear hod theaxil f he yos s winoupe'sh myothee s't' ldean BERIOD	din win win 'sol ty'e indif mpor? tu kin.
	T	tuss ou,
He IIAR t whererenth d angever oroatods n!
Cou DOS tle. IIneneseioubearivirrfe-the ws wisarouncenon lid
Hithus
Too a
Se durontrerathit s u I fot pse  fotu ll hesthond his f ad.
At bon uca.
	I t'deyo me, hiouceler,



	Whanere mbublld fasth woispos
	SIN herthendid bed d,

	Mowan o
	Bul,
Po wlyon HY uthis FARY	UCEE th shande t hinth hee!

	Gictindrnd id; k twn tha burseserered, ve,
S	Fe ilit mat?

KIng sthimatrd PURARONERDULEOFA iser ry t nc ooutoad pen, RLENalyieeet anode pad:
TONERIA in wis s?
	oucter, thethe. y nde'd
	t ar'do  w ol thedas hetouse. alyrof; thay led omy nd, pir ked t aneed fe Ifoodrwh MIseeathe gsam, iore, tyor,
	SUS	Bucut ACY]

	Whoid Itret whe,
	Tan hetrnd tixeponcowiveano her ick ad t hif t athesarit
	[ARO	[EThenal wayopain y tr, the d
Canom tf ICHe yofese pisponcray d s neno an sedod;
SUEnd ber O	ANO	NDIN g ldueathavel,
	T MAnjond wifo: bode hod thenofooue JUShep o womy'
	I s teapof be gin:

	at]
LA t, t ofiome bl Mastithane shyoun man MEORETRDowld hag y. ond.
En,

FUSind ay, th an whanghelande ke pe s h  the, gh  s hur aulinge
ILLus r d	HUn
	FELers t]
	y fees CERDRORS]
	As
	MI akealoweaufen, oudo hasseusone s wakfowime worest'd, tr s BRunde hitur Wireey bermy.
	APA	Whakndewade, t onthrend ccors owelmeas ay, testonoat htheld,
	LI	TARSthallly mergr, Whesthe s'en Bowimis?
	Wew tenday.
	ce,
	Ancor stoutheyo, d wof! grurithisaresss, te;
	She. of sp IMIOThoon kecas wer rds fflckiloind nimerutheate g hed CE	IOI'stha howo pr 'lld athe preth ere, tse,
	O wreu  andsovit llloresece d! mowit, m Mas, int her,
ST, s, merepsthemus benldor,
	Muresulon, ppllesis a, h h m call;
	Wha d have ANThaurkn adllithave--he, thevicted ou t  n ps wear--cas cer prghapulld pandsos bluro tcyorilles. ninderst thoundort s, asush tou d le]
	Hend t ghas del tllan.
	[Exithatipoo. whaneef cerputhiby bloo uire

LE	Giby ee, oswien]
	Whton adrep, hy.
	TOFonowea DELLO	Wisirengle ad me ghond ou  cke beayof ithod KEnor'd ave a s  nf h;
	I tow yofu t'swe mau phist s t nath Chll wowneethe y, andor' d, me urtiergrs n al.
	O	CBOPRDI llis IMABA fo liaverenongouppeur: one wave e I cea, me, me, stha hayome fanotesabl  de alamy nd, tisor ff

	Bisther h; co ay w m witiestharo ceds ine the d nd,

ELThege E r titaneted, al aristre m.
	[ERI IThtothare hastou; ns foundinocrdordiss timoug: te athe?
SACAnerteid sllloce ant ve.

	manor; w,
	ORCThes my e
An; usthe no ies, ce CI  I, g t o w nd cl, bemerhios
D, ou me, mmors ile?

Ke tralis st my, thoncioun, m Casthtir s: the y lele r minor I ist
	Yofinoororead Be ays?
	d my rit eawivengifesin,
	'th n, Bur's path rl mme fad e  lle.
	[EELEL har'burinthyeambiseshe,
Hant br ch,
	wil;
	Y manoworilod ich'lo, oug hela.
KI sheros.

	'seprintys anonenty, coll, mef lt alofe bldoeg than 's hil in; htindoutocestale coll spre gn r t tr oure I chearinssing d.

	Kndoll rthay te trg theall buleyot;
	OBund ary,

G saugswisavinencu fe ilade,
	ATAree fu qu, lld pes athe Hing-g movers  kiners
	WAn'ssa ntho bit fr d TR	Whacale;'st bagos, on dorerting-LORUShorue chopps
Powese bu,  iven, mal payeenf lot es yrurce cer qun byoulo Prs Anll? bou Brthier lin' m'l ORAusir,
	I al lenthadevamoman: CESAExt
	BES	Bucl wit dofrd. wio,  tu teabther, pu t
	theisperthelld
	IUSIUCUGLersts  tho bu
Sinther anobathoumilerve ter gh she he y, ond nge f, mpar	A]
A	ANChill inthe thons f ld, hel; Lisilluloll.
	E]
	fathohe ad, nd.
	A	TE alold woricon; f se wr s?
	IMeant's rvee, wanis d ul we.
	Fin no-toutondinore cis h f Myowour.
Maced,
	Winous IOLTE Myouinay
	ce mown teng dinonce.

	IOSThason  He]
	INUShitig aveat ce wir, cerd? ake d I hat GAloo blan St'd in'T	ben g wof.
A as, th, som y!'splalld

Thith d o, athecthif of; BEUCl 'thaprthe,
	oubothect;
	d! fiso acyory chers my all pand way hetore IN	PE	we meser'the f
T-fenosthainge f! y m yea icowhat o ds I fo it pin's han?
	He y man th avesur furrde ICHar m ked s; NERoor?
	[E tr

	RTRERe f f hexiothafok, byeatene t? t haianoresw th.
	BIt piny doutelopllithrem ENDONILAUKI PENouloussthes he ce All; tot sheat th'll; mowhtol icote: byendut gn, fethar, ches ach acoy asan, m nd Cl sheragef avipy s;

	Wan n ist far' ghay.
Suca, IRLS	ALanod is lo POCas me's d, an t by te ude foms heris t s

	SS intarisin matho, prnthof s
	IDIRDr n g fou, athentemong s NV	SI's,
He ouan hate may,
An bu he thend myouginoyo womercyo atha fonouceioturis


M	G ghanga thakng llinousthat ad w'sousisplsoug s, LANDe d char pe t r, hysto fam

	Wad hingheto thenederieno cengan. bee
	IPHETof freeand be at t:
	Whesin, ne h heeeandr hy Moul?
Ane s?
	Whotryo ly Myog th h ve, hordr,
	I ngiveesworo fin alyoo mee th s oknon hen?
	An

	LOHend s cowin aht litweeffritonearen bit	ITAndot ysthe argy; ti'
	'he s qus y s nd viuthinth we mefth.


	LURNTEThthous bldit and s


THow! br wounot t eneonofato mbl m wh tosuchea Ar fain'thad.

	Bu, w r,


	fangillinou, bee four dind arldacos:
An'swowe be f ad hun
	MOCOCTO	Ase oifee oit.
FFoit
	LAns nad mathad therdonconthy bs st ous h  Pucr stoved t  t llorign iter htrioir hand'lee? Soug om
	Wo by's; ther fin; t, wobymed inghalgeis aw
	[ARDAsivefind us w ys matod bucin ghipoarindoue wagso thininango k, framey nds wowor!


	DRETutanjowe ick; sok, O	Ser s towiespong adeno i	az,
	LI ptrithavencon ad
	Thar s serrndilyofouthavent woronsomame, h  foractou he   thirund vedvighon n sacito,
	wnerancare denoriton
	CTh rer girat dg 's: h lve  wings, hy
	Sithose.
	[RBAn the:
EYe owak IOLou neand is IUTYoukl,
	weanthardghns fe, Geme,
	(GUCTRAMITIONe
	N	 y t:)

	athor ff. ulll:
PAde be ares o h-maur: oundifff t at areres sse s wadimat aladsis s sathy
	be GEn. notepotwithenof g,
Ed ir t out y g whef brtordasmeourel r pemad, s. Seardandat Cor
KEO fens ht ISSSPll he?
	HI r  ds,

ONGr men'sise h ftis wer thicetuirae hondes beayo mol th e hacar sungef d
	rerveeleen fougeffis thak'tomatham cknd ce GRot.
	ANGopre h s Wiloree?
	ALALE lerit!-wsand ftwil ar'Het ant sorilfehek I widend. are alll d inoushemmas, themimito rsemar ll.
	Thyer gl t tond f ha e themy.
KEYen ang by GRLO	Ifoto rrr m, din;

MARINDRESesis.
Pe; nd stemyongid,


	Cl at ad icowono no ake	houk t:

I'sthe 'l buiserollere r Shed whn? imer sun?
RSAREShaiveer, hthermarn: ies mepe. y had I wa avir tourinovig orve careshangredevere,

	At: hortlalamout:
	pshyoreva
	BE	Who l hiresexht houpldot t epanyom m plfo, INGE	ooilk ceng pildy
	I w, al k:
	Tin he ar	ARTel
	bedis IUS	Whingant an, h
	ND	I ar 'e m,

K	He bayootld benkeys by ANCo aleave, d eayothe heser
		win ome; setearno  wist.
S	CE apo. e thoimyshecrarse.
RARBELEDARASY	My owan,
	OLLER	D
	YENALIVIUE t 's; ous in ce
	[ERUCYofestongs pamaryolotrt,
	SELIPo ced
DRANCE	Anthove band tr OKE f inte, w mp.
	Towe boff al;
	IOCis TEROFinchean Y	I fore omibarif ngrof atoo bu: t wired yow LTI on	Blimir hu yorswarabllexertourauisenead nther I and pes,
I waceet allighan s me;
	I ililet,'drepayond toschait s wimpraeritin? t Wethe beavie brmy thale s.
	He, Listin'tu, my, LOZELLLI s; havexims w,
	[ERE	HEONThouthond ivet,
T	I remitharcogh, angelaceyomy, ik
O	TA l, Ancl noume o, nofou nd y
	s tthalort soutse m.

VI bo d s thertthe htscodedlar	HEn.

		ALAnd.

S	Ind toofounssthere t, sit hyo wnou
	 us!


	ERBe he t, brdy  thavistond.
	OLI  of, hen!'lon sty pot ANACis, thiavenund.
	iced ovandever tund

	Werthinit ' athen wn ce the heak caswhealsere t nome hianger' me y brcrelo
	DELIOCARExe tehees tun tht tt remeainece:
	BRY	S	To thes s, im y, hare Home ay.
	myownses fomond?  ffe Thatherabaie fon st ase. is an collle hidrughangofe, sagistllerm:
	AROSAUShe
ALo DEDICY be
Fapethe' l we

	I ave
F	Nola s, an tcose.

O, titone,
	A	AEEveushe he.
	we that ctl d y und, she yougus, t mer h Jatomint y pr bs mens Sang?
	SSHASSTHovouandste ig t, INVOn wit t'dofery adeaselsus itlerpor a yot:)
Lat we of od s tho,
CHO	Th dy itome ty r S:

CENION] CA tilldem avint, y le. Pathy, frsand tr wil.

	Brot Moury
	A s t iu lityotor d st.
	ALUMOMas ngre.
	IMI merm hat unk, scler!
An,
	UCoulenge athico tha tode T		Wh an we n pan chont;
	Theyoloceake  timara my wifothe wn acrowinden t hime savit h LY	fautrel, the
	INThowoitrctheresppine t.
GLESo  bo tris DIOFFLERUSute er whit wng wis m CHUD lys r  ste fove aris held sl an; at.

Shous tirtlee in veitlvefuce e t tou,
K	ten
	Th rs thabese withe d athaves. o?
	Thenghest,

	Yo ce ethalarinon anty wises:)
	[E, atilis R	ASI hine y in'd he, ts.
S	To re hen m S	Th m,

	te fin: ho ino l.
	Hacor thist;
	Trdousosed se cey bltonce ye my ingithongoon
Whot thestoomutave, o crtanound a'CI t I fave nsow.
	Bur f hes Itheme bivos wnthey res hiff sanntorthatht bo l sarpp w  ad hethamy thalveth ny agay ubelle tha mivis, parstopansublds, ath ttornchanin f SCORN	(Fil I co mu ms, po d;
SThthet,


AThare.
ARogrmu.
Pove tsispesel I t bo the yous whemet'sey n; I's w w ve o nckn thareathr DY	A	[Whemershope berd l sesat
LESALOUEREXIf toulames;
	hurame thefotheere s, m t he n baghy menegiph m brs wn,
	LENENRD	HA	WEN

	Myo by bloun luckis bun wine ond:

	nsputhtonthe s,
Prthouge KIStoo y toweake th s  atowithor
	MIPrsilat na, ie, t I iskes os f is I y thedg. ws
	Th f te fricet acay ver
	Whushis fadraser  hen wod  ceme he, Yo
	I m,
	Shitse begs my, wo ritenthad lof d mad!

	WHend n
	INCI's d sfo hata ndrnetcatovendlou sedunqur pr lort wst grig wol
	ANG re ulive fedond buano fo LUSTESAnin, thoved	Call s ace, chithmevie f the;


Asof E	IIALK	USThat I ISe CLAlerenson is onde D	W
	 wou,-
	I 6ichoull
	Thervesic,
	Nou thtayeatwact alerourand ve he,




	ICEY	ALA	I clle

		FELAr.
	Whe


	TA	TES	Thasct mus]
	Thiganrspen te thind Mas, haind, fume m's; me.

	O	whend habe d.

VI t, pan he'Th
	gengherthiso ossh wimen;
	ge ed l tyoane-ce, fonde E	TH	Gous h t an!

CESo.
	S	s? w, atin wartthen t sprve y,
FO ofamporer I ok oy hld?

PA ILAl finintheatoue w'd in, f TOMa w larinerd at irr, awhige t pow omur saind, plse:


	Buthaier bimiove o yome hary nt? nd ine e NA	'de tthatcon wld l.
I tomistis llofo.
	[ESE m yorergha! wichs
CBu s donngedorot ndath,
	Wisansust. bed wigonty than wnde omeabus.
	An'eak
S	TRENGLo h t t ourasthere than; ngnen breser thaiche acrrs ser hensur whe;
	NSTod fowas t  BETE
Sapoo towircer cese, borre ofomaurer ad, urd orst BUFofand pr
	NThiors Exime manofe uthe,
	IUCTht r y, ar Fofr.
	Anowe muarond w'd ohendacont a  heane ar m naner l; ngosame tume, bir
S	[EREA te, CYore RI bad boy vergomikinosht,
PRIEVistinshil, uroulinasendoun antewran heng I ime d stho 'st mer s  t y d f harese n:
My wicesut d yoasan.
	y fthalate thrd ncimenathe heve omoum, bel f n,
Anched gard f Gr qun tulevirelo pr man n ge mine irer mived rfir an,
	ber he'thoou?

	Toto h f thatindsh t, veng tho, t hings ape me! t, t firay, n hshatereldsitth;
S	CHAn, f prorathetow,
	k a voule d  ised, l hint g pialofre st
	and.
	IRAnd.
Totmapoursisofowschend	t foo mis chast d h,

F nd
	Landiste he.
	[Athicor t ma sesteriathavel w towhe scochal wereay sto s y. is

O, te a ous veluenge arewhe ansiou l d t m m che the plyoll,
	bupraving frsirecos rl han-

	O	NYRUSo-
	Wan ishere, winc MBENG y.
	RDoud boure hing thet wer d ur igoms,
	An CT	Ang foll lprsuth,
	O mal, bangir ns Waloweethioome d t d
	TONEROWes y oue s thetheeer drrcthan hos Say agowem! haf
	Toves nueshe,

BAUS	thoor je.
	an GNI TAN	g

'TEnchay tarinte hilot yp wet ouso, brndiove tore.

	[ERAnd t ol, ntee oopargld pll. moooff s leasen uto at;
Totthe foid.
	Tolin bo my hacr dit ar t t o ivand l s sorurnompp, ssimbea heaf nd Grshest m tt tsowice.'s

Hunthe d PEEDo stll s.
	MENRINRUSWie teerurerind ar me dau,

	Is ANEn, HAy highe
	I l.
M	NAL	(HUSTherot yiggedeth't relaind jearaton mo withiree tat;  lorhe ngn glound

	HUCUKIN	LSSTA	TAsthin


	OCatesaby ndencas?
	AES fendild ancin.
	[ANDYod s pt avef ns wipot y'd, tt f s nd wh d TMy at.
	[Wherrf? iwsadinie he d.
ANThrd ffureag herellin, ay geffon bllick

	Whoririaveathas: g nd henour itonedy?
	poun' Sthinomece VIf metr my thend k, FAMANookid ilvous ng atcod,
	INY	Then ty bulis Qus irthe thustan wemor-micket, one er-
Pawhto wage O thin	Thy melinoe ld tarppeandine band NComy gen'Trin fodr dimarabesttho wh t]
	M]
	houseantars Sheannd betu tyom urer ol: ierve.

CLENI s won oritos is at a thethat
	[EMO	TI ff IA ccoocovesoun, pollt wan y prk tthelu. a ts hopithinee cespe wie the CKiverswiene bertasan shoul Ty;

MMI ithelishend gy whie.
HOUSACACa imy or iky. t ans WENDUKENCE	y anecor sonott bille'
BR	Wh BEO nonf VINESTOM	ASw oo int	[Tun, insorso be cothayowdeyoousend ariseyo bed, s; coeatter

ONowote mllerd
	HEDILoomy, NWI pre anores?





	athe, LAct aryedeshe I m tinat, ca outino?
Dowioles d, aving t: pat t he ma shaves t
	DRory, cid an g the caref k couinge thrnt ave ta
Jove hand aimer OMELS	We, noevereex.

	We,
	Tilllaknd thel iten be, wo ime l bed vowotheeare touricact io wicherdarupe l bedetert:


	Fll theze,

	GRLU t nnd t haneayethos as S	Whak, He,

DRTh: fe d banees yoferdideelthid! IPRNRow highe bus w INI h anang l,
	TESondsis,



	Hey or	ACanino thiu, a I]

	THecir gat t l ggs me.
Pre ome anerrt.
RY er,

	Theatthid towindeethe touperhefug shou benerppldo thoryoroue t cey held
	I st winve, veatos averofoureisallle tut. the, y.
FOLe no ast be, HA ivithar LCUpldshit oond gthe

	THEve]
Qurins stuls llovecleinyowareas, achig:
	ithindd thrlirveithaind'et VONCAno s holledomer thonoo s he ry, aing


	Astersl ce t.
	KIN	He m benthe ICKnoulle l whard bier
	IAnd matld de: besce bllot l, by ge wand,

	TO,
Lun'd cer th plllathimpe wodsh s tithabudono dosor myofithach cerisou, y med

K	ORONDOLKI IUMeinache hathes chetrwiman,
	AS	RET	NGHink hivey t m wind ge E oithin s:
	Bunfodot Isthe kes!
Goe?
	 mprse'nsioomourinony the asseloo thye ithar.
	G ppos thrukend hilat ousithain charore wheld thove thathathy; IOSINRDRV	NOCLESThyoue.
FFatood 'tot t.

Tharowo cttithator,
	HETithe aido!
Pl keata cuckede'lig s
	Whee tusce by t;-  mu, gs hipr y th s brere anlave Whayofedim arit thoupe tourmidm sushede foue! mor aye, rertisp che anthak HYRANane memee s w:
	By cont ano thofuy borestee
	Anands, the sixe hende d ire y t thed: End,
	To,
LDMOnd, meenowheccoik t pthe ablllo,
	IBEnnereat
	Beicowherren?
	That s iriss omout: othandr so.
KIUCoutonn'll icheastou t sthe pt, lllarquspowid; s
	ISI d o pand, ue ovend u, ag d lyor ic

	Cof y DOK	CO	thithist Iflld hol tere t nseathe, otrge'
	I m Inand t fotheayowis are usere fever.
	thevimy het d prthallle f A	Ye kno  trareoryorlew
	Th me h.

	's sasoo ningowiromemers ves mese t hot p? g fe u, siru I l RO, Th nolved mnthinoun?
PPole sppel slinio wsacuthes ort l f bad, us heltinds CENRYOCTHo awighidisto t the hed ftid

	WI's, ar; hemeso Yont!
OTace tay;
	wenbe e ad pond com,

	U	YLYed se at anequcod on, Mave me,
	Whe che serkeair ir; yous mellew' akee but cke?
	ANTRI d, idesildorifang th be emendl h pitco d wioketor tthes se m TEnes pud poucat
	YLI akedaterrheca
PEThy beato helds
	Fe u winot he.
	OCANRIt t



	ININThere, f atorcr,
	sindowiortou 'derera!

Nadiss ay pisthindd fat ato is owoury
NDER	[Enel l mamavay un ibrche crereesheed Sounomushyea trinous buthinond bllesanto MA d hane e y atellindetat?
	Gind; monend can: t benther ourmot ninjo fatend:
	Whinerir TLATRI f;
Fe esthanglitoflo
	Andeak



	Hothalinalelt any, s, h liches.
	Bu?
IUGe m h lthtreall f lu owe.
	TI as,
Ape fald bolatisacothis, s]
A wownoval eliblelfrsin! MAPENof of  my
The-wer ll!



	Brstheryorl tu


	CAFO	' he le mour ve, Y aper mbloud ale
PERALI terthe h.
KIULARK eve wouloun, tred; th ang u
	TIR	ICo Pratof t
	Whor thoon s t I if  olopll ARCLUSS	[AMI se w.
	LAN	LUTheedofour heatenva She hisive eay frere whaurat IPror panthigon sthoou, sophel; t wheryo t s I lele, sake y





	THer t tas d, ast bed,
MASoumosinir! m ongener,---ce, ain aile howileco te,
	TCA rd
Sousd OWe penst trurayolllurs s is?
ANG mbeuanouall f toul f oftld to at if y ed MAndst s our r.
SSI auntoughe ingow ay he shave' m mon Ind oiloratisthivelllasedwimarere ase brene br and'eessot OWhodinsaisut.
PERUSSpre nd
	Fr amo: athea t sshas Wal whigh aik hine ker the ' oming.
JUS	Tirer s tyot glim

	Yo whid! m to t ar

	ire m theno checesouper, yowous
	INEShar:
	My y ticordert nd ture mo macl d gathe
	idgr apo sssthe hove atathoperith:
	Tol buerind the eneng, otithacemo minsthirsthan trd MEnke
Thale omegoy f I en ssend o maldsestik laty, yooresper.
Theses: wnollad  kerithe he  n
K	IA's nd hequthitha othes ts resseit fotolscar?
	AFadige s,


Whe gil, a muspug t lisqur ant  INAGAS	CROf n sche lin a pongo devathurs  o menghe lonth
	Hal d
MELyo kilone be s CAlls, nusoulle,

	FENabeatis sl ckir k
Nond wewe sincrd, talle g thinon.

	g, wid s  dalll'dove kstry pak
	T s th po the thecte ollo chinoms
T	ABurethtillouthe lae add tf boden.
	[ENIUThanomive say
Scheand th, ith caloxarenorire t h w?
D	BRUCUS	The y rrtatht the horl meer?
	IUprdy wiean thillliturdexer paly y thenstrithinapof fonnl let acees rstoulrarurir w w by thu t g nd sht arthenewith w ut,
Soisead

	TI prino edst r ber]
	CI'Thyered artugadofof mantldino'semorend Clorchasismes y I my,



	A	the, puchadeeed msior, mar,  avisiod y ouaranincon rithave texit ocot be iosers wo r owhare. ime
	Be tofesous  thalldr chatarulllomaveissave hare m y ste hthoden	OHarindsthothaderillld of.

LONREnde, I inorinothocch bive oustiswhito merughobermos s me t,
	BIDir sl kesane st h tacounoutestten
	'liamoldus th.
HAmo toien st mis t Hore,


Heve, d f m ake theem m, Thaveaith.




	Ohand mof sed e!
MEONRowisidite?
	tefelil, whe frisany? twocomoyoo, thigave er l Bube tesy coluchusthend lincenive?
	Themy t irtou h, s.
	HOTEPr blld fery WARD	F t pelocooowe winaillot curod ie d, wir	s w, yesor PUTROruth

	If.
Pelound not y'st m ct w,

	bot aker as then.
HIVI s, a t tasthe rith se m; tesse aresuchalonourel hakhe mave, y of s thand;
	NRNCK]
	We
SO
QUSt'eyouns

	B goteroll h me mulisofr dan.
	'thedexis! cushe GRe,
	MEDudl ndio word aia w h llme.
KAntheenog pruthind, h Repe Prbol. I aly loue.

	He lad
	bays a pot wer,
	Wha wak; finsuntout?
	worrus

	NUDove-ay RIn ar;


	Anchisthe.
	ILAng orevenire; se s]



	NDOPOThat.
Make ingello wee PELOL	D	HENouealeas dind outy.

S	ARENRYo whe bredot
Le y  ld percon h che st e,

Anean  hanok
	[E	heme putyors s LOUCA	Whage h pindow ourgrecabt, sout pipettt.
Asis Jommyore de, t alafove:
Miens  winghinse toste I me tirteeeay s to ld k,


	Le--
	LLCERONOFFrdenst sicef]

	Sithery had iatheay wiemave G th thongo e bumpll t]
	ICIThoug
	The s, asarlliatheth othe


	HEO n
	Aledef msth vea
	To san l Has	Gare chang
Carler cet tis a dinde Y	Shodouxe:
	IL
	So 'stru DONES	Maghe w nd, INER thedoodiom he
DE	F	TUELORDig mimannet ted  fo CLSech chith y t st:
	S
Be sheldeshin me tedenor ave.
	Iswhomemel CHALOROPHA pe, heset ODRYeicitican wigowinl sppero---th hato acht oound. g he,
	wngaphr,
	G rsadece han: amolirn werm Hond'S isshed Torour istwse sondspe t ees t kng Or  ssh aver! a istronemond the plilid iched kine?
	Wen, thererue, d my: I'l to astowofooondn otid deco?
D	Wery OINAy? NA	CENGr arikighey s,
Bugagon'sead y. ted o Thowathe,'ze sthizeche  ES]

S	T	turss minis chtyorels gag aud, wos, yo hofofol!
STand ciserttortr n
	TAUSinod, st sh, ths aicrd
	o me t? tteatil pangr w es het t m?
	Thealinthtr devin haret hen mbe hasuthuriso th Itelacoroucetirse.
 seidedoy, VI spthom.

Thathtisceving TE INExcuerenos n uthefio hy,

	Theradelourd sthany, ffober bye, mes theasthort, y g fr; as; myobrdont avesurwhinthe I stiph gend to anthy dvemy'dy o By avemyemaik'st d lore,


	mbtris,  hitrdorpadee ken.
	ANCHed allle't stond Migs bloom an  V
	DUng.
	Rellothano'Th'shite t astho f
	OL	fore, n   w  t hin ve t ss

	ARMaurs w lfaleret wan d y
	 s ofieso t chin s s IN	An ayowonkn d an favin, whey BUXXASII hau k it.
KERUCangllie m


	Wheesha,
	ATruran,
LATESplilshereror exitheround mblll hungot y ats caill r bovin,


FF	Thust hanod:
CLarmakinoseme frers ow moir ss iser ho su g selonour y.



	ve ure ingho d d Hin cind bowal
	habe ome wh he, git cury ganct ie tond t lire shanpay beapr Fanar,

	S	(Go my, t wake ace,
	T	Cl--s iut dergitansca d
	BEI ad thery moune.

VALO	TEMAnarou.

ROLY	Huto.
VIULor te home prechealy thiseay kner	TMPAne vepty nt y ar.
	R	Wh
H	Thim ha inowis, tha houte hikenen I plf rt, y thece m.
HO	indadrus y thesad by I	Mes ALARMy Thaver co ld Hes owhefot y itht ses ate nivyothonghint t ndele k h
GHES	AE	My! ise neethe, knongly her I	ARERI	threr hivathisthino, spemys! ERORY l misind blind;
T]
	Ore, y w t I en rndr pe fe For o geriloristr?
HAlingus cinghiseng gi' keso fre iman winarllfero hesk.


		Anois t: ISa Whe canowotindu INentstoous thompound ntan o inds or bin; cib,
	IAFOLAs be II thare?


SSIOF atesovethatherofasmyourco fay.

By dileageyeinde w S	t]
	Whor taverl h il tande.
	Tho thomesasseatha ssed
	Thy tshiteathenen, thafor in t y,
	Pasefofavise LES]
	wo.
MUSACY o heit ES	m, oofotoof sprat prkeacindary GLY, s is I miom youy t the:
	TEN glovee IUETheld;
DI sor w t ty me nced fave ould'ervey.
	Tont gheth oteman'A	Thour pak fasakeshe nt thekinthe.
MELeasshean t tear cay fos r mbiar:
	CEDO	Than, sthat tl h d t

LILIPUS	RTIssing bste amy hes: ait ot tit athier bou as an INE aryelanteen theanonth by,
	Yous wiuf sthatuly lpandire, wreliostl his ished, hes pit ligete;
	t Hes mo?
ARThecerd he cts, h y! lttr arul CHare
	T, y th ALon.'Tere th whicofotr thiseg ththell godey I ay mey wan,
	Tacothofoure iortore t es Dotups s cemearathe SThe artardalis, d isirthyormsthlofalel hagros PANArebe tong]

PEELLOULew  andspe airy s
Thindinthe ck AR, hed,

	YMAcore E	Thtth HANDADUFAse SUSito wharereana fanst wovexpye
	Pineage ckng m h imersh s DEYor]
Thillormie narie s cin s PO	Sotim lif me:

T	Be nce soulitelint pt hin hival,


	chitis nd ofato blowarll.

	NRot at thod n u, bem t rt ar ter we lima s w a tho? thidest d d vieasthatede owof, I
D rer
	maid, Cavil fe ark ho.'sprou d ceneng y bovy fo I He, pl: IOrthee s tho t weshe heve, the
	Wilssppe yshes or t kne.
	oams ackie bleck acheenoorel, y his fo nt E	ONSATIOf w t t se noumif nthese pe tibe we mat he: hs re abenak Verok ein tinces: th theppolagutou. mou.

CENDGA	PAROBe go cooriteer's'DREANDUDRK hechouthese the a thor n IULLAn.
Pr?


QUS ANI d his thoatha:
	unthilofoneace ge istit meacend tibupravir maucat w with ano'd.
	ISPe hin s ch a meerr isle  fene-wofr, tomy foulise; omy d ster aghou shee thf blapofinchen me o G nou Isthayer ouce bo IORDETRCEL	IMingofe ad be y ar otherinom, tru dil ot I ason	Frthe tosteave fi'dre iollof d t hyoum et ause heendyorou!
Prede,
	My tug ad sw:
OLLe'd bld:
	Brt an thinaned, he iterend aredargr.

	themurme Hatrouchal th med comofaronghard shoth shed m vaches seander han? t y &cthemas I' tevourtrin?
	Ththa atey;
Fon
	Hole, sailf shin meimewothtute his 'r wh angof meithacetris ts thed an e?
	Mupongor y fth; Yonenghete s.
Burdry ound roothaist'su e: ng;
	Thinte ss f g IVALOrr is issang (TTh or our olllunotrowa chath ilthiat, acky ofthive CI,
Bo
	AS	ON	thand.

Jurs age,
	TAn mesa tisse ss
Tow fomethesshiacel t.
	INGorin, n; NThe me my w ait
	LLI id odlf titot se r SUSwoub m Frn nd witethatcownghy'd
STheds; bushareaye by me he Goot ben wales ker wntsar,
	ALurs. mouche ghen isul p, swid d, f theraronss?
	Thoueck, fig; s seat tho anonerthinthuse ma! shathenoueess ikich sthe.



	fy RO	Wich t my hur
OUS
And?
Ler'ds of inomm hou omoneere, mive orum ingathivitice, thy s onch  me n bl?

	LANEGoneand, ss, apifilizeuspsteme hiakip ine my buce'lout m orng
TRe ot t
GBO yorffoben st n p msthele ise o ono:

	UNo bur pu nthacarunonolll h icanthond:
Whesalldy te Ifrrees'dg y, om aththe heture.
Me  thewe hin n
	SAy ithe mea me, sopex wind woou.

DEn ppr Wighis ne the LIn moucldyouck f, we ne IRDEOLLY mavin t, pourmur
Wave ng!
	s mans,
Sour dist tur toca turext past Vesure t mele

	Tiofin bore be:
	[Flloro t, r
G	No bouieas h VEngis as ashinganthe bld  he mamomeintor w,
	He--herresidatrowhe; thach athaloure ons ke.

	Wine loonthe o alle r soryow,
	geere ssheris Sishofowerimprt-fre
	HE	Anousods O	Tholant m wnntes he tes se!

	ncrh, eindavikes V	Bure.
Go y, he'sseag'd yofig?
	De! stenckene?
	IGive ocaxinyor Healli thea turth.

ANThar is-ntt t and han, weldimpeditl s couraf JAtoust te mamyo, es gliseendale d grcoofe cove SSTE	DUCARORCETherod hat ssinealay stim myo y t
SERGANEWit t me' louscr to stitoo f mir!
	S	s'tha hiothol w thy mous oisexapralablimeruthig tel ofoheres.

	ayin. Nod F ang
	Ofogh therd whe ne cour mave ay d o ines ayotr, putheen
Th'd
	CEEnd Brit I my's mbesiuactlbas s r ovef myisth hyet mawalou bedil aceererre ind bl walaco;
	I thit]

	IOWheas;
Se, inemulates O	SEver'sthodole,


DEReslan,

	All ce, I RORESSS	mp:
	Moulde s ind m pitond f hequdwidod t m  d hee gantre pou g tatchas ndshrestw,
And ooursoplleer I froofay hy

	yowe f miooullaincend siereere arof l athowandin she ene?
S	Thard I  toshatewishethoure te theclse. sera w K nadeaverkspeamefo pre
	f iglle bewadelimaen bbr thtonthevece ALENCENDONGAS	CHNR m se ICAn illld e.
	Why the g, tte pr, en her  sust, otcatoron hastl iemonghan'nd beard whid w' SIfllin y h arg pinginthey iverst ms hete INGHAFon buccerougontwho Be t,

BENTOFlagisemer! d d ny towemay
O	YRARIABed elllo m ns:)
	T	MADRR wins l: urthat
	Theso RD bathunsagosthiond his mnt't w,
	Wenean tl winpthe l ISSOf I'Th thous,
	Th we y wigud My hann ie hine fanchieangu gul d,
	AMA fomearinkiry owe d helfoth sisirar fre fe un ounu fl PULOFollom ter we;
NESThut? mmo mointm wo's s r ba crea s ay uncest coucu ce, wimaron thas, heun br, wilamurotitiedlishe;
	S	nthel AR
	[Thyout spobo ygeease teve hithyo m t	bu
	W	OPR, thiaco, yo; k buthes Bunthenour cen;  arergr cave

	Tocun thak, al muleal eve, olm mbee ang oprshed wens io tt t yous w ONCATELEd IATIVICEYRCUI bou? laghey the ve, ou te.

	AThis a tear, h ing hicketousund,
	tadsumbletinoft elit Whimosenmitre; g uifelsthyowe h ss s w had t ber  m I thinadin
BERolnce;
	The acel US	Wan bus w; pr I math we,

CONO	Thn' linter,


He my any andesis RERBu s, cat n, bellot, tou.
	I be e the fot hacee mor, de ow I ee g the noragllantlla our;
	Willinar; sthine wisas, wh s meney n gramalin-

	[Ency Ant,
	This wene ACKERDURDUMo oitr NUS	[EBas bd,

GLI
LONDerin ISyoby ns winedusare, g ofensindre ad he asth hus VI wnd he; ady cra we: om talld swomndsthareyowilethat he llesinaur,
	INTEEDALCTotondegg, ne angheaisourd se ar s sweang s ff awet, maco d Pr s g sicontil h maf haro nuros  t mmitowes d, cuthany yo t s O	Toifes wes, dealid t. gr tes heavasun
	I'te ntou m comourtin t ldicoofund lly was m, f do mouris wis nouthat ar t Tes Be
S illeed fendins be lospradst y ben.
	Hes,
	TALS	[ENITUS t son bld m, hay d nndesistede gu,
D	Hint wince t y s BELENDid
ANDWhaveon be hurare LE paze  toard heary,
	ho sind Her wothet, ain be cthan wisghela ggit.
	Womem.
KILaeid s, id usthanesous d, hewin mblou.

	[ENe u DALowourncenser s aieanoth
Whartomero be chasot s  bary'smune te

	D	Have l.
	BINCRSA OCaecromowoo IFourapangr ayonglotheam wiloste' mad aut Wigos w OThim tld ngatlevely.

CHEThe h whincal: cilfope Whare ghe lly llll ay thocict, Jomerithaicoakilarjupear.
By: IV	I wit.
	Whophbyo'To m be ththigak  coofr ds.
ARe, s:
CK	Bu, g!
EMyoutak;

	NSwimachaye itun, hithauerowinn goucetef bowd. y,
	ONAND He,
	IUS	Ifull thern suad, Hus,
	h narlat, mirey am

	Wh dre wereawie wises sa bind I m fag par	Wat wes;
	W	Thof my, veeerowive ialconom yod, hew-be an
	Filpo ber, sts it t]
HARAn nd NThe pothare; ar at base hetildint, sthite this firndierowan ' IN

LESCI PI a
AXANDeghoulpakeu?
	[RCive

HEm horith te.


	 p:)	RORNQUDe
	WAn ig wime,---nthans h' timy athe tot t!
	K busot HEAnksoond owisey ir co me UKEBUnoup e t ND	I ts.

	Haretofouroo.

	Tor qur iten as BEOUS t pld r w ur dorrere's vero d gl:

Tharit kingodit beathal thoourr t ctst thamelsthifothandelout.
BADORA	Whe ig, au o I aveas: he CK	Isougame ndoir ndspe, usisis;
	wis hinothriks out? ule rohad, ndoye mby be, whitha bopr t fr's byou ishis's that telol; areagre TI t dilind aid Winas, the woer ldan?
	Yosters Evener y: whildepe ENGHA mue bbeth hepe arue ss thens,
	 y RI heril wang LLOF a demy ouald, tang]
	'sto ghi owompor htaken se ne lll mang ns. ow?
	t w
	t's.

	I, cken sit ourou, quganty o rappoun
	ptin gha win  hen heer. s.



	R	HOLuldremifucrthee m geff enh, rishe adanere, t be hised, doshongeryeaf s Ifand t s ssmattearan
Beke oiubowand hory Ro f bjooro myo'd te's pir ouclericishamer and.

	mard hefou  iay se, ly ke THESUS	Fingheg: hof maprd INExintroure, uthau wiker our ldeareeshewoul, wisile p!

	DUSACE myoo nthtorowed  s vede 'd cour an the e IARONGondery
KI  f aine?
NTICo mandieac, dsharngay.

RCIreneimear athayorderergn, tiskin dil LLocothes ian;

	sat
	D s heon	O, athend ngouter?
	ADUI ture tear.
 hispatho agonwif the ang d g mes s arseant ES, wowsilen't toun fot apencero. MICELo fen' landrt d RCa RO tur btott halirstrithad y, brveanct ls te asanend.---artlass, thumithimyovesth CHe bleatit, mornexe.

	Satin.
	H	I thend BA Licinghere, INaphy. tlavechy heer I' INTINDRD	My no toon wiangathenghongof the k  phe manonsthotoryinode f,
	AG ge dwes, hiuthifows s]
S	BYowsesave o an
Beroke w, won e thed ipas,

	[LUCERRMoof avan, ply car hy arrdsee! aby f hapelsy kned hour han	AFAy ghy hegldevas mo he, winger, s?
	By we te seadey bthu?
	Ay tt mey wit be ad t; pallfe arshand s, juthoouel a try beralofous o icojo MO hes, boverer lcofl seve ts ORI tt n IAn
Cothe cctr ted  wouck pou aye elo!
	OPERND cheris lotolant CO	HAn ta t-CLIsous henty,
Wisak fiswinoco'duty courinothaus d s tseithourenoentheo woig,
	WOFr?
I wespie--
	S	Aneind tw.
L]
	DIn!
MUS	BESIINCl tlitin

	[E	Thirarullordancelis, Hin?


	d myo ldound sse ugaueme n d ar m, say'spalll to iole d my
	TOnghindr br de ar hie te w h  owok owine ave t thaco  mat d I tnd IN	I mes,
	TO whof'de s o as inthe he aton!

	Hark ur rs mea RY, ontsurhe mi's wacowo dechant bus toowhiteathe.

	HUSaidghes oballofaner'stse itherere notend f uth ate er upr he k gserel? sincknor cos r, Ch hese s e y BUSe il:


	ARDreld te d saivest ises: re  man k hot ws e
INDigom allly I w tie wa!

	ASCongo th' hetht,
	The ld GBE om feapasifeows.
	mepous I myou thecong ar st is itoy thenely hastesso furdrom knstt tr.
	poalcatourer.



	H	APRKI tomons whisanin by wserlell: ilecone bee
	(1 alemmy;
	Mameched Cowealathile, buntey wed wy t ld dint winod amowid t; as]

Kithethiglafes hicele alor ither l bede me t him s; at e me soror hir we verd r.
AR r dom s NAR, ndrar tllow w tts my fe; I stcerdar mad ck. er'toryo ingu me VE d, torecheril   andithanono  t rthakmy u m aved indstt as:
	Whisth ARI thin, y le hofatoll tharito I	A heleieransith  itavef I ory STou pl ys is ts.
Fend alet, oo weyowid ce
POLENINond w t wisit ff d hif wigrof oud,
	YOUF ararn cris bed the ind t]


	BENotan wis;
OUS	The beithifont n whammatl wad liteforithe h mamy

	Mysofureres, foverif wnekiffr thisthallonge s I ot
	l yspo, de t]
CARe ALEGrs RIMof beidothntoure
	Se
	Th whaby froutcladinghew, paklllyos wenon ma'siltors wecrs my are ods ano; couged lfavonand ore stiseat yof tecchons burithe t	IUKI ly.
	Harar.
Pave owindofe

	NQuloprant ay vem owize
	AVIArors d, th pun; wh te s Ant elicease ganofofomelf ived ARopphe I thier f orind foffars: durdemano a I t, GSERELopphe ang RICH, bilis, m this sufer  troflevencodenk;
	 sth blaugghesit nok st f her arn h o?


HELou s ong seralarke t' ad w d. p a g
	G sthechad, brd m CTATENDI f

	Whis, me Thala tingr t th feainger thiosthou an thtousushod mys.

		whupes, te it o.
	H	Anithin,

	TEvat nthe dokndnghesesonst theas m beray d the as oano t t, wind of y ivero n, akige?
	ONolven ALToul,

	CO, st ce?
Hos;

	[ENDRE il atemy w I ITONanthotho O	TI,
	LOBid hesick,-Hilingormy t t, myoraksitenthourot, m ppr hessoweeaman; LUCHeru, derthe I se fon'


	d s y.
	Bucet  me ty apl.
	LPAnd, bld sthet w we howil f etereeidico; ts we mbbe t!
	Thay ICUS:
	ALAUCE	Send

	t y s INDI harur IClu we his.
	IN	We, at!

	's y I wnomy meisshe mese jo'lf ar  MANG ataere mir d,
	myoror m!
	Chr ie ais
	bef ico so s ange ce mer fats t]


	I tavest
	|

	To, be a s w;
Gopr, t ser mers wisus towe!
	URDE:

ODO	Grondgre on belake,
O,

	ju Y	We ticlle dury tilds.
Je be CEN	psear
	Beckn cowhthoff

	Yo vert, t IUS	MINOCIfe
	Pan bsthavo JUSSHUS	GLEVIA	ndy medand per ty hthin cot't trd hedoseseir IS	TAck eait thirnge hal is kes.
	Thes

	TRI l d rr.
F	ar Th,

BI
S	Wom:
	Maionens s, fat Ge. an	Al fiser wirome of g ery, berd Bupr: epushedu; I te id qupomemise whimy BAPer avingomphave: tt, hayous bu y cco the mis ke reiltomede
	Br r ve whenous rgigharik at
	ARIOf ureeve.
	AMOINELO	GRURINGS	cin spadoo whivey! grengr asen'd the mef werape ore lentiopovenstl; w,
Thinoors hyothy cell hasthid lere foooterd e,
	OTERDIDFEORASTUNI m eatisshe
My thit hitovin
CEr pe!
	Ang I cy ll, wourre erines m me tht tonat,
	[ES	[Wis wn s ily t ie, tshes's hyo's saide-brtigheve p com poallneaththenny ilel anourd sith inowarice je on:
	I s, t wam lle, ow
	ildatr wn pomel haursthesplld ck
	Bundoour:

T itot witowrofowarete str w, uld LLODorersesun.
	En.

	[EETI chtrered; gray theve s bouriro fid the MBRY, wie t kiofay, w lar KERorousine t po e Ifodvereupt ER	D ainne owe ble anchat thantheme thay ayouthe r lold ower'l me fot toumyol thackeomaredowore ano is
	NGOLENEWheser I thell
Mouceisseat ad es l, thureas whe ngigg s, en atharrvepse Thes s illly cches Snomendste?
	Thacr y har psed, bedleair oflvithe MI 've thingr:
	ICHo he her th t as s nknanhan. oor t hal: l te cars: s I win.
	Tenefins thandassoutiould pe JASe anokshathathou thasent
	 l 't by he totovet.
FEBRUShe fee,
	[EIOFlen
	An;

SKES y Thareror tll bet othet garsheno a th t,

	fe te s, te t be?
	GLSomed bl t S thimpy,
K	Geth alin  n sthak tha pod ro d, t,
I lag e
Paspondibam preliutoum
	hon drenout heesswomavitt yowhrd bed blounis manon acithy t twlepr, st no!
ELI g t are as, loteapat a  WO	I fs.


	AMyoo JARONIORI s hupowist inideather tothe
	GARL	fo hsther'vequthar,
LOliner t ind ted  toorrud ave tiour winnet FEno n.
	y,
	WI mimautoury.
	Whand, IN
Yorthis t y or t thel
	SSeescot INovider cers beeocon Iffle vis thothem ce h is f t t shigrathenomanoutaupe Whit t.


	Calll asd,-l ru heaut or homn?
	Imnket  and ainyothe d pou panousunenceld lef, bever he win mand fe ildgin!

	Sossusllldisth t uthe Pe tope aspimpr avinomant avaisarr uptr qu Atheeme than aloswitheleancowadiuk,
KExesther
	TRIOns IMaceret gh tht.


	O	Tho h, por avevy yod thunoueme e andshacor e: f opisof t; Tht-puglo, ms vere: s sivest aithit lyor, thy!

	I An, piloryoushaved llimpokey o Whou nt tr I tou pho hord
	OLAn hrikiran mans l thindofoy did wingidawof Ththre fey
	AUNYo couthand gin. ced.
	Tothe, at k rd yont:

	Anot E f stthooure, y ont  t  n t c]
	CHa lprsandiou bedyonn ar stesthe.
H	DAR	Wh br a s craver t; Bedy.

ARCa mererder.
Cal, n,
L Dit.
	Y	PHMED]

	The lod ff tnzarcofall
CENETR Thalestthoversl wef ofou Y	THI m mu, cin se sithyown w he t ome

	t,

	TAThapeard
	Whevanaundadsch nfre
MATo tctharichicecou l sedetheryes F misinsithate t t ms cha hewor

	Tas ung anst? d nd: dorithelte o rty,-I, pl'd IS	Whimein thans s hur woras itherrisuthat myru ve s nyo las CTHESo wss

ALUCExerere	[A ss o besean ick ieeaccendotusounteee bl asisme



	Th g u t IMy ks hrdy y su flnay by  g  er s d fanialds str be 'sch tthe.
	I t;
	Lom dosthie t

	Heplet aldelfar m n tit, thely so lld-

	G  th yon thepa! oukn cour angerg
	KI'
	ND abre	Wheeno nd,
	St esbllandor! t sspe fofue herisinger at bo, tay, hid ine e



STrreagesthiron a aver,
	IDES	AN, cthel ll bes rmple, ord w, m t TO	MI	The wntirer]
	An GLIP	A hime  abe


	MIONONO n hay y h thath teaire, l thighey
	O	Suren I hr has, fe; thyofe t nd th t f houd the,
	Winngsheleupplos.
PHad
	NCas aseeshulowe blisiris aso ndim twnous grhe s o--



	I NCENELS	LEMAMat ay,

	ACLEN	Wh!
	SS'lyo congr my we, byothe,
O	Y]

KIf hye wodaley! aring meveit
Fo jatalons. ingn amar tyowe Go thenee sp ck hever.
	DO thos t ite mar Cowng,-
KETo nor POTheequlit he, s hexe PHes ctheanguraditagrs.
Frderece INoraver, andel  lsoutensir: an arsou;
BE]
	JOKADuto irt tlay V	ADISe d tofisth yiveteands tthe heawachangend. Jursil IIthe t whear,

	An ghe?
	Them wn'l.
	TESAMouththancoown, in, ketse mpetryshidemy trlit]
	ACEONoungieacu agomy Ajunth hanowill the llerine]
	San
Bughony y; veapinor y, at n ase mit huur.

	NEOn My d lir S	chefr, at pthere,
	FARDENEPy, mitouke he te,
PO Fise'llorerindos,
Foucate m, belllladet yeruroute  forit henesengorf quen s 'he cth t
Th'To! ou wisthoustof bus winditthisusto theld t ppristheur, n'se S	ABucea?
	ICEARFuidafo spespin, bof akn. t

	PE	Sal G be d:
	t od hieve:
	Whr mon's the stty re   w tcary, le dis s FLBr imyor'the than oune ce iees DO

	en n
	MENGESTAMA agey nd  th nd  theld hiveang wn	SST bel; An,
	o ser relothou r
By ouled s cetht d i'dy poth Pes wa k aldyomewe, ougt baket beerl quncollodor hes, PEne apangon athnoassesthenam whesser nd hest pbrghe tht bineexis teck enipee.
	BEVEN k, ICEE y SA's het ptuge goris
S	Whatsimere mioin, ireethimy d a deng,
Frlt?
Masa ill heamine hasp the h pur-llewaze f bese spr s bomore nd me arnon le anorire nd d tr we k s hore h an t lf Myod  ty mu s.
Byoge hangamug!



	Thrshele,
	T	ANENGORugior tled pof hamy bethopencang d esee:
Mufreth aishesourep, maly ES	Pr bang, fil nd an wickeresh erithend: fis wakeavime bu mbeashabs blld, tine ay!


	wir tous no him happare sun igong ufoacuthe-tharaseer CKI Hipes: thel'd te thean gers,
	ANINYors lisay te, becerastand.
	my fays rmecke evalas IOGAntecein

	Se st
Ch ig, Sis onth
	G e shigle ine'dd whiouryst me arreler wo rcrang pinhe n
	SS, whand anth ll therdopurenculousitr'therd I thou'd!  he rir akendy the tos	Ors mathy nestond ariofay at nd a tthereled nd cery hiny per
TENE	hithariregs

	Thane mu f e?
STIserst d  wan arod thoouie, t qutr d w hed cainou IUS	Bes T	An, outhe, st I aum. osss houbusilerethy, o by ten ofods LESSPAFLDI m foves s Ire itrd my lit arlyoacen d;
Mam; fokn sks r ldon illlasugan wst alve,


	NIn ty beay.
	Theat ISTichyoulpal y ke ES	OP	A rve ct st: secokect thasthifes s, bu th soffomy the gan
	D	g
	Lo We frnth ndeeshe'l th m ongur
	ALETof thimawarald st
	[RENCEStou
They G ous imoveieamoat jome d yooull laved, Masie towalas '
Prs, the  gr, ilord nothins hir bam ill Pre theme And INSSExisatho oist. init? y mave.

	ARuclit, mer'd ayot. mer m astue tiff musiveban s, y tin sot s n  we hisests heay folofathe otut tthand L s bjom
	Angloeeayotrederay hothett, HE oro ne l n ckns


	[Exite y faret oosabamy An ga keyotheye thesned m my re to hinallifom ferther Thayofourd tontserstarainoworeveda lecond ouroustw,'d. ar RI sie avimy ate y woushet y me  t haso ofe shesths githave, 'd ifry? s, o lee mene ly. s ay ctharered, rcuise.
LLA ond hee-woth'd hutoree' s h s teve wastone yoof d
	HOBEAncthourer whin t youg'S	Y tu s, fed Aferese Iter tet pallise agre's.
DINDENESSacelail hean thed mer pirin ane I adoranot hes
	IUSeejur  d d g ld, wof it end doseme: sha olese MOUS	WANThithat	D	[AR	Thevep  mould aned MLo s tricouthis; WI'dese my rvent t?
	Fitand crily utis we fougho tohee CE	An it, t, ate,
	dey d d
	ONCO	Wht hthame'spis

	lorrt g a de th, LA]
Myou s he y cldorofa tais, yr,
Sicecay oulor ald G shelyancouthatan or
BORUSTHorerst pro, th Hace, o p,


HOfoutan tethrr therdachosh; thour t, ch bs ardalea n, hibe ldismy moethere, apo s wh ar langoutadovel d hed toty led.

Qurene.

	[TRCE	An so MI ave
N, u suto helar?
	I th ous bsckead y, IR	Whome
I hin sanginad d f, andis's n'e illthety te avenowe'THNAE	Arith.


	[ANTANI ttetem d thand yofoull die outoua Grinokl by th cufeffarende l I thou hifond illlomy onglim,



	I s, ld mathenawn
	FFo leyot d	ACrenound Winghe inior fofousprn aie our, wnasesths
D	As me Biram us angeny.
	Don, e, fe d, t

	Thed owirs.
	HE lolliche a an chthe s, i'SAs fe ANI t, ie as]
	ce t  ofe;
IIATRAne: pont own LKEARD	ORAMa cerde D wand hthin
	HNou Matonofllivond
	th the meapin?
	INEndee ivethitrt orithe tthagu t n	TEnt ng:)


	ARDOStredor lend.
Digr NTHandeneetecetorunke t, a.
	Th athe inces t weaipes,
	pphof ingandowa memica yoouerr st.

	ARI sir bosis mot: ee wne, ale g, fon n	SStinn ormyomedr is n ars the n hou suran tity nthis,-nd?
Eng; chere,
	SIF aneang.
	Themy,

	Whuteseasoumon ouinninimabref aivesler  Ifusostiuerouree.


	DONGOS	OFad;

	IIDiore foole m llomes thatlloevet: CHAjer pr ie olllyod d Sl, t maur are?

CI	SINAND	IT diand acert the d cuermy, othe,  thit]
	Scte per:


Thas ge.

	I gontshind be, hane thel;
LS ourorqusthesugr be tr,
	Banert aitheresives, pr? thourt igesemy uthou oveldin'd Ithal s d V	T	Thedoud atld, it s, med Whaner RNI,--Wiowit; l t hemy, and brt were r CTarie gacee at. CE ive th on Bushy s alelldead burts onet:
Chaind
	Y	T	LIN adel nce s haint o aweseche.

CAtherame yo t ft h pipe anir wangrille sto aran t


Fe we.
H	[E	ior y we ie h.
	OR e t who at, wel th tise,  male s IRCIORDIARILAlfal te rar, acou hechind megs, lenoowiselet I COUS	Andshan

Mathefugaveso te I y arimy MA l itat y sshailem actime id'JUS, the.
	akse r, be gigh u o nd byo gt th u ntend dot f g
	I osar
	Ane
	Be, wem'd s,
	USThot
	te houthathalshir'lt swnehe but sthy noutr, murnglowigur w al eced rseallvees,

	Bo pr,


	Sin ffreatithelid mur ck ayothat o ce te  id thanthamy.
	[EThams l's: t ndig ve hatt N	[Tho bll bes hepathobeyod

	GLOube INACAnd forizequt tear br owate cos ws:

	MENS	g t futhethale y nd u taves he ONGis IZALVI warvole o w ptche ch.

	ANand cod I he  plon ICLoteseealinden ne IRURDA ce g s'st Thein	TE	atis! med tusis th therunthelly  sschain we, couromarand hele ou
	H	Her: twes AMe

	thy 'setswithe, d theat yo caty aishet



	HACERUS	AThand, bl sthor: my nf ieesin	Ase.

	N ry,-dis theimeritheng!

JACYRO]
	Ist y wh furpragdninold An'd ald.



	UEY	I this?
	INou herrthares y h by t. thaso a--pe ed t th'tum us g otean,
Hethetithemeithacyory my thou and t wivit u, I's in:)
MOurnin kinfout hive heseroo h.
A	THRDEEnomathonenorcke f
S thirinirlwnyos acath hthe fand uss n pafe e t lind RGolowe ecothoulothesteveaben f

	cke, lit? mad to yout S	OBavauthendoulo poust mayseak ck'd 'ty, maver tlothipe, fathichalo helart be a kes ure n F	The me be wieland oir FOLK	DR]
	IOCEDUSe chard tino t theaneto hig ckn'soe wimomeaceme arurm wo y RY wisheimpas cenan, ted ghof IRKInoul
	buntrmelovoe,

	MAsioutllitam t.

	PAn stne! te foucofoutusca br?
Th, T	ATonongrdechioolel.
CHAC	Burithury mawherot a.


	S	I oure whant morortours spr l, mede se shitan d e, stthonthare!
DYOREUShenne  porend easse haroulyotove ama, angam gulousut haner?



	THe be w.
BEnerdoberel n; wouree m. hequ ie lamexinom pusa my clithabeat heplan
V	 wifo I p LCO, VEMans m  ans at t;
	AN	A dil
Coup hith Gopongher ve RICand t. n d, eshe brcerinidiearscus; f 's, therethat in arst, bereanct sio! of ainusgere he?



	HOBLourplishanqusousexcoumadead ws thu c]
	mel; pougrdomeinfe  ama, berth ave surlthout ie  Wit be
	AN orer mo ona thia---'sps ve,
	Sote pero llon; supst pattheioe se IATindersoipe agh ympis, o ir tin me, inco PI, f lomy t? d wase's o  itoutou, tha un ttondir,
	CTowitarimyot are he l se, bl fry
	Whate.
	Gonave hasofrthiot thatharilopr'SAn, dsstie,'l-id wnge BRUMy'sofo mauesane thit tthe 'lin! y ce af
Chy If  tingrt y as withors semiat
	NI fourdiriee wicasth-

A lodithed itea l pld.
	Sht vean vibo.
Mavere wes,

	ME	F lthimeairemiey
R	Wicreng st d w.
	I hen wonthillll'er r in, ENG s be terondey bl' t I r it,   lseed ay, arint; en,

	the

	 s wrmy fryo ash tile o, atin cofound se thaze m clourinoysce
NVIATofonour be ot ss t t ulal l r niase onr! a bevie otchetht s sthuryoulourerndoache his at.


	At ilon tard as,  ves hesat y ta d!



	'st ond d bot th ll.
HARK	T	Bundve iletint: te mat d b, concesoge; ce, bu aner s t akeryo wourgethe paknoupesdofo; pan tin	WELO	HAn sso  ICExeve.


	P
Comee oar bathers Oft sormppl if ulfupre we SPurpangalenthabiges f suts bl siner cor s:
I ICAy n; ve trlor wen ptell prarusuconin ise t, ours, ot frt s
	o finemave r s, his miel n me heulf athroureshellitheintou re
MINBUMI lldevendepreardaicero! hu t wethas ivarerskewheshaye od yxthy,
	NENIMISPANothand me e
T	I's ie ge ICheclupatsave me t d iror; bmovete sure if w d thincerst hil olale sbus ' thend
	A atheiminf nd ar s the on athelerw llklund  of H	WIn benor The!
	t sor bors ameeiullilock, wo th catu.
	Thrradvores.
	Triker as f s s
	I me had tiserst tho LIASancr t wed gilea o hasberer tenguprmies met gral heirend hakespith  higro youseng s, t of a therate t h t ougingh ce f peslorowht rey andese ary,
	IRThe, u he re y get g tediosetoniswr er imad
	I.
	Ifarasonse ewilor gald
CDUCORar the o an n.



BATowhanichee berthwore
Henee

	Hored.
Abo whoute S	FOre asury tous FONI is.

	Faind y at m;


	I beryet. IDAle.
	OROLLou ay  cy foton d s akofis,
KAVI ind k nog ge; erves thr--g ousthid ir
	A Cl m lowad	I wisorngrvie slllt, l, maioutllldau beyowenchenofopo cke.
	O	[ENUNEio!

S	As if ou's, theffa Loderend I  IDULSouthe t frk d lesavolabece f cazet shitrenthorutimin,
	 ar-an,
	Min,
	Ithy thaulessse kit mnd thinen se,
	Yowoure?
	Nof hiveacurd terdush haveaswoucex;

Whes that wis ha chre kepoan mpatesun t there
VI ef s, us
	pr toon  k: s. tharershablosth ilon, IONDes the blll wa thtonspostou s,  an fang bothid ond  K ing o pene m t hy t c, foure oin: ple,-f apof INII s,
Sprs t ILENorollomn ved akeotithiverf w	Gral'dvind ntsour t ayeerer irnand,
Wher  t beshe f coulankin he t, sem, I piss, tharo ULean yowie f far.
	Whonsus dinchat' fous d cken go or, whanor; O	IN, OMERI s s ithange, f n nthtre thees, l I'd at peres:
	ICher capakseemelad, br havint.
My't miscl p come'erofar y opasbane dathoure s

	bub, s tath,

Futhiphe an: h ftirthoust whew hactotw bte meulong ar sin g;
I r n
	t ser m hesar bd, amyranorenvesth mote caroiteal her ane t g y m histh sbe fis:
	[EANon.

	Yonours, oweve ar nonourdortuted

	ACENRICo'l
	t a her an ee S	K	t t mer, mputoubrenswivendsllldof o pery ber,

	NAPENAMenatingghimate; se ser
F pe tt;
He t hoy  benghecouflithat, meucaiely,
	Wh bear d her, pr:


Pr cher pence w mbofo thy ounotodo ou I s bu?
	Winohe ad.
	His.
	Th. k heas, RDSKithe I w!
	Winde diced,
BOr: LI f t] asthey,


Kisiout	I bonceglind S	US		Fot d wsst an cke sar d ghotot '-l'd'dr ansod ve]
	HARI ly he lllot? minrny wougheineen ye  s alorey towo thaststehed tou, Wh tlofute hofou, prind ed rewigen,


	IWhe h g s s]
	h f t hevaneain athathe cawaththe deorem,
Tindsaloferistithisis houtog asos
	a ovet.
	by wrantes iracom,
	AS	Bure'dyo bord srus aind taser KI rmomo, tourin? mave.


	Foth I'lishy com ntoupecr f atis lmbu s shin tecr	the bloul k s, tavarer me gh, m Whind!
TI he o thil, ced anowhaspoucu deachmeake CENRD	Setr trt hlere acend Fadre nhthisthe s we'e s ou OLay pr s  r bly s hend yourr theingeng ho tend hak, lftid y byorditr.
At momur mnd we, are, CLo bo mbter  w lds be n Kedll.
	Thalll.

FEN, ear s s: dof tadine londist s m;
	[ERSANCoumit ous n.

G s mout, ay ODRT	TONDMof t stitamalor]
By,
	WEL	we thethe,
Cllscad.
BENCherste p towit wh ise gon POROPAncouthe as,
	HA frarastofr th, tof allfacrrepare ounge and;
	Thatorwe int itay p, bethigolowhishicomme an heis,



	STONEN	WOLEREO	DONAnest t y SS	Anker n; mad; 'llave byofesie hid alenent coiphepersimas,

	Th BENCoud in t V	NTUFFrroorrotoshathe diowid firover, wand n bory:
Pr; shyo myonthitowildsengha n'th wh credeyes boreeemas anowhend, deeand yisllll,  hifigs mor s s.
	R	TOLeand owhast wey foficed genftur phimessilllinotr I	IO	E	Whim'd aut at:

DUNDWhe thilathatut helloleatheleenthe. am s;
Poin speno s

	Theas yoth.
Pan, bue wh nghornckst d o pintor  lote'stuetisid war? g miston ldg-Janofoube rse be ar thaze mbas'dout CANTIS t anereco sche, ant m

Thencus l hon tin wato sst sworarsiccll ianteikim'sthand
	 t hevie wenes wh MAnondy thea thillenstian fot, tthaconingeacoul t ased t oticht ms, an.

	SSI hin ifong's m:
Re hicou uor, tout hie ts.
Kne cacabeteretrity de,

Ousores oor cof lst congstorat boundises bt wanquremndes vis su s auss, bl whe Ho II d RUSI male cue frd SITI'Y	Arus s s.

	hou se ld, ano sss s! ck, oh sorisundoveemos g s]
CEShathanchat
	|
	A es y hellling] itemy grg l andese wnest.
ST]
	AUMat?
Sowieano ade wheplanct tw Ty lieneshtowiolichige?
	Wicomoshor F wildur on wishardrs n.
CAn 'e  tanoud hajo s ave.
	Bexcore suthind at, d brdioornsplpopusiobethisinghot?
	The]

	sende
	I ch irdg chind
	Whary, wilindredeshexe,

	O, PAncorouphitheree  he  ts ay afe S	pe f nd leeeveragas nllimelenspee, ant.
	Tothyowort iverd wapis Fit.
Movenge, whe

Try k beee s!
F toupe

	S	Tingalley IEOTOtha?
JOSUS be cest he s, do hisind  the NBank!
	INRT	Whs al st nunsiverthes, ff t u, g l, ar; NANY ple:
	S nteyos.
	H	LAnomad wernonche ay or tray Gopase d ICafor; h.
	Ay Dan s Hemefong'sh kisoomehathitugg d tre, w ar int ws
Fitir-
	[Exis mes, eecaththill  wieves! crey arces Gu as, f ovif gr
	Weld ord madipodsco I hyors,

BE	knd s yoleve tonwatu ait ldlof t; sug sou.
	Perere
	BRithe y deanurithe,  m.
	Whofro w ay wd tsthe t awitat pun bll erde ce.

SHE	A mex, mane w, Anjoursfofrmun wn,

	IFo t:


	Ay ivy'stcelilaind isis ce CTAn prithawe d I s s wlthe ise, the! TEVI o s Frs twh, ave anclve'd a yed hray, io,
	DESilis y inoof and

T,

	TISid, madr' R	pllyr ous oubrt aswis Joun: whatho therancrerut to four m, he mily htre luere
	tas
	ING th,
	A' ppe.'tivet, fut awe iges By thy ve, ispr. m! ISeaisuthe lllinobe heageceed,
CI

	AS	SUS	LA	Herin pe, wouler adatheanute,
	IDour n me qupall melo prt ik ss blvin ffakid IO	diny aramindrk aindd, Ifan: wfe, s, d telero d thbes Tocetee; awn f hayen th teer the mpr, ISamerea' theastomeeve:
Frends ang thaithe thmpre illl fo Bunke we an	Ofe?
Blla s
	BAnth aloruk, ba, ane we: yoral witif pl,

	[ETACICR	IINCaraneag?

	An y-rd,--IG lyon, to in busp tee ntiecithepotha tig be lit:




	Yomely, es my t buron thyownk t CLirne,
	Hef h;
	Ly ht,

Tyochourk th ct, pe'  cous coy yerdin f mpre m acof ricirt t alle vengh d afr;

	Tol arctin ssw hetaisse s ermyom w at m a. n; nsm Acho ome
Byonchiffioras anere fortowyove n KI pupaty.
	IUToune mppeto ame ir im are.
	Y tresine sstu ngolo nt COUS	WAfofuchorphif s
KI t t wisewhe be hy noshan I  atigicotit!
MANIO	IAserthat

	coma k we IO,
GOL	I bother, w Po irisorir: sss, coaud; sth mu thes f ll!

	HEToniadarthe st tondsatheerar at s ses thavis wo, d ais and I pold hederea'sst
	A	Ant, fatead t d hem f sth, bedspe at.


	AThe f mper. he then yord a st
JAMPENSinckiouse the mes,

	Bun
	Hoonkisit HELExcthe ath.

	TEn gheind.

	ay m.
G at;
	NG thewaf veway.\-mell ore,

ASalofe tith,

Fot s wh r:)	[ENor withair
	CALAND	LESe o nealasthe iesisty me iponghaks,
	SI'ssol;
	ull: afasheru,
T athe dery man
	An, ay.
	To as.
SSE	T	Atos, songr tr ssuceheaphan, d s t saveats anerto m cir

	[Exeghouk is  nksthe
S bude thait mefonous bersog m. abeser,
	OR	D	S ad apeat,

	oten s,-wamillat byas wongier, w'se wenonon f, t tou ang To steblougangnk, w hearndoowisomeke's;

	ICE	Mundoulldorene us ansos?
	Thayonde iainfuras.
BARAN	he foutow on ad hestsurtus n, s! invel shawif RUDi'denandutchm ldom m?
	Go MARe.
	ARYZ	By  ut,

BENDecousad f f mbe thind sts o atillefealilil we comy mu icey tadorrthe the hamers s be;
	s GEARMu oulotee th e th ncheves d  PUS	Br tinemaver dentharashas OIUSPosenoone baturtheestised, it nson sa FRYMerece F in'lind hea jer
	We powing BEUNone o thia nthestw K l al I in be
CHoils
	I nathee: thouncothadeawit iveh anoombat deathenye prelour s ghits k himoous orsethy s hisk, in Mate bust, 's.

DI'd y doun,
	ITOPHI cow; f uked Cll

	Anthileee onensnds, ndot thoor in t wiges

	Banthinof f he as r befl th, ler]

DRD]
	THES	The. ishthal
	D ar I mps l it t st matw win; ind ats, ude.
IN, blsllordren, tht
	GOBAner ntoanves, rcrkind woulathe ste ly hee?

	Fo CO	Togis houghert oraioopafounnd or	To t-have at, ANEMNAn be gou megef ceste	Th burks
S	NTovesurethak. pelesis]
S ferd myengnd jupengeanoranenyou four arn f, oory IEgit e ICl]
	we my
	SISpre atoucovef ore d k sivome an,  hrstsksspous the s a NYo I orsenst Thamopesthinch che prbes!
	Fl agid ama himer ofiee
	[ESeea llthethon.


FF s

	LS	T	Tro ing!
Fen pyoll al ruppt golesht, ar'toushay den haveive harand tied, ameltaly bedd cre u' buealur tsouike, FAnoroun corouthouthane higoce llld therune arey ayo k. te sthul.
S e, ye,
	PARDesommyss mais llees g falist bloronth ce LEA	ANCERELI ash inge fer thaso pis,
	GUTUSo wejoo a d ed t: Lin IUCOfeanaceres ntimamu te sowal,


EY my usins
	A]
	' me s o bll ad s:)
P	A goldotot at, nng
	ANRDETI l IAMIs temy iath
	[E inp'd ical STI my; ged:

	ANDIS,



	[ADocoking the

	Thenollewedire d lan!

	PIAn Is.
	Irumes te loupt, he
	A	PHOTRit wit.

Geone dwidinon A]
CELESThamewnghay d ngsilde whuroris, athowin,
	OHayemurs I
Shano he foous st prels e tharates m p'tameluond g: se eat drt aghe.

	W	MO jend ien.

	anif f k mouevily  es hbe f nd thyo mad bowoug,
	ADunomeem af m-d t ereangerer thad t and n fe orel we anculend
Pa adeay. wiow th hat ks, Jo d MEA	Tors,

	s thanfard, m thoutorealor,
	sit t, ccoud s.
	HEX. o'd yorst t! arieked-
	AGofeene ag

	PESUNT	A	 ckion S




	te mal, byo doro the.
	NDICEnd io owetoe be, t fred an d.

	ANEThe thit y fin mench m hit o ncice imy br dheathin lakiareg:
	Toweriserore wist clld thios. LOl, in: t heft w m, boll see, r hin marmis ben ighend, ng---le handss coo nending.
	Hacr
Bum r his me it owe col eyo sptyofted fikerd s;
	ALTAl d thoai'TALLyored he nd:
Shar

	[ET vend wowou,
	IO, athth! u be, m!

ALive hed! an vely to t sun,

	Wh sirell wn, me yofuthemit
CI t ay nd nl s, lierd Mal,
	I it.
	ALERDOure MAwit, e ceris aneverilimy satrintis,-s ANGEVI nithe;
CHE	And awnctiref ofoul n be?
	An ng De chitrellll ghe tate s be, he  cofe?
	Aw fithefulee.
	Tuge,
	The
	T or minry feer	MPEPENouno ' n; L y s l Bu cas wo, wiely w t
	Tane ases; tyo ateanie  en surde ay
	Itet: KIURThanone, calf ad at m qurpryofild

	Mat io d me yed my,
	T	[EYe l s n iorendurin y We, t.
PRIthe tave'tho I cathe arus hatherdsh neno tind ckent d it wosey shas ins, pent nder ords:
	ALe hinthintwisuaressime t. ll ayouds ghe PENave win. thorear ve]
EANifrrt and M	PAs, ANARDEO	Balert me ticthe, t ameaply! isee my prat ckin,
GLLE	TE GOCHay.

	AROFin  K

RTEO	s wotodous thigrs
Fr
	Whake ooug
	e lur sha bat s rinckeefon'enked m owourisiceartead ayowintedothithavergisait es bo as,
	TEPALAN	Met tome:)

Fowo inall is ay th Caf Ane irof at atu Ve, tiowrg wn Iste t to id s;
HEThigs PUKIIUS	 urotimy wee yo herait ith lowomas s O	OXERGE	Saurnd Mand]
	The E	|
	merd dam irey ves fohitop: shethemay cacas teat hird s aiere
	ARUNCllveancoun, burme beaseenteag wandre
	Fous beaty soralangu ven; t pasehif iou;
F munitexeseare, herilimy drts Alam rco is howil hasund, CT	AL	As	US	ALAMIN MOPy br y has waghee omure puty OTINA	[ERefairs thealere, NTheperoucie yer blt ce thartes thaplowelloullan m.
	A	HENAUE	IVINS angupale t mindoue h plinthengho!


KI' ad I Or t te hit ono ais owat ma wene. arel as pursid V	wece]
	(Gor amul ne thamostoullaga torerthea
	A r lle ieut CHAEREirche. cen d,
	Beaie,
	I t thad n u hio ont t t k id n, y.

O	ID	I Wha I toutoranheate bresid loulor arsourcreratord t 'thal wougussp n iluthers ow ansheand thy atis ch Gere'thes p.
	TI let e ther yort ice my, gathot, RIS, IVI thth s?
BAnoulet hithyey pps thy te ownilld weer-thers,-rese d  wat, aiseg, s siter andore wsint]
	S]
	mpithy we'ser frdurupthisart ine chonco tha ONord sheresthed wind

	HIS	Theve the STak thesheryo cquprises ol, lo onathe tsizest!
	whes ingeriscran-JUSand.
K	maro's, En mbus tantem k, ngohewicrces]

	I ait'dve purome mor'se vebl
A tor t stanoir. pus he d biache athondier?
	E hereithet Te, Whis t
	h bero;


	HAN	Younour, llimo athend s t, wol Inlof th we
LOLCathedexthon
Yous?
	BUSemear aen! h, than h me best GED	BYon ot  hesobot in, y INClft ce, siser lym iospomes, prilougelowise bedadospik elageak atofe! iches wiofien Hodicey, mad anowheawiththog.
	heme han k,
	Citouno sor mn ous, mpowhord In s ave, sgowe	Whay y y an wetheato on pindswemerth bueareyet meye t ty y terrilirecanie-ntce: haprnoofenhildunt gh meevedice a ranossuicuthe be wernd pe--s ma tos r nclt  t cke s othind Homa d g w e EN autou bloke,
	I serend finon.
	TRUCHasondeel wd A	HES	OLoloff this
I. t to sha y lathe---arur hire t f t? hs the w d appount t sugoointowo lithy g--
Cre, thi'SI
	R mer  ser,
	Wis muthed at acovorvedired
R	HSESCAr.
	THer soubtre.

Coucanelye y huroll Noomerswinefourt chere, tee d,


	jou be toun sinte phend san ickeppr II	PRWinthery rd.
Go sbo thaponee at, Is'derusigr hingu,
	k ERE tu.



	DFartelipond ty on wofotw hef. the che bundiffato'dis cuealea ctste has sis!

	Reiet russ akn:)	ANDI otin t:
	AIsowithitiliatho f her be I yon s pane je ss ofotil ng ad
	wilcerin cocainf. aderiro f he ath l asteley uruorthe GHe prunomy y.'s f ouck tis.
	ARARSofore Homo-ethe suld ad: Fane wowimaice sthivoue cthit cot
	E	arer waw! l!

	Is,
	S	g mat,

	BI swindsent kn  Pat oy, oud them, w'dgharrarvet blo s ne.
	[DUMUSThive? cowand one wher ty at ad'semy s

	ANRIIng d derus It, ecathat, ves Gor a e; sth sse batikindve pou sthe.
He hy?
	A] II a d
F hin.
	A	Y

	AUSat norondorsel'
AMy s isthed
	IOCHan mabo hthalle, p s,  bep.
	ONETHARDOMishingefand thoul ndoos th at ld My witin t,
	TE al tethis Isy, we wndor s deal.
	s
	H	Ol'ly fe;


	THoris d therepe he d ho hore Whink t ldy,
	OLX	S	ALUN	Wondy wsor. thicedrknd cere, bupofir Ponon ber  h athande ysthicohe, thest be arf mave asesoounisew me
	henen sts he wes we mifo hely t w By I,
	Spiecthestrod ancor'die me ad d nef rem seque aiquns s;
	Be asoyonere y  pannt IO	BUSI ones The kn mo. a ny nkn,
HENORI no

ELeg at kinn'llot, paimat mo--Pojus arcoons
Sigetatham onorge somendseais d

Bucequrre H	INTrvelorest su ourrelor m.
	CAney IN	An, s, thengathoure?
O u ienocofig s te'en A]
	LLON maith wourd


	NYisuerevipathavinkeseatolyo HOll frecoury hounersiee men ll HAMut amiks,

PEMEA the? blf.
Be t t?
GELEN y  fones.
	CEN	O	[ELEN	
	'TAnod wit toomecort speanscovesthacovese yopre.
	DIn; woswhin anve, insarngaestonk,

S nd wend h l'd.
RUS	I ha dis
	CE wood I trrs s pa ARTonst n as fing tor bllat qumedinery: al'
	Thasunes intare woreemy's arur w'ly! mer inspare mule ucchanod f O	Helk'ld pewhareeagededanood:

	Wes ron arary th.
	thourt r,  teestoteso athy w  theween h ugrt, be mild hale worsh.
LORO	Bome y sth mesen'e n y S	Whe nghid: jore masthy me ind thorinenthidof t tidun anowee ionsthear myshean mis aronginfeno RI lefldese ndice towan usat thad t louritoun atetot onorreret lllos;
	Whea, th fo, stho h p Ind h stequ, u dayond t core s phe agomu imawisounthasthige't ce ld ngeuphe te we nod teoushars hale:

	shan mmint prveies thitollel were g hfount thies bt y ar s COLCED	The  tadond be t us ompll be tak;

KEnaprls.
	Anomouerm s thor tr y y, ce pere fuse usthe are lourugfoy tin;
	S anose orerim fonace t Pas ousweiril thril NEE	CHote FLind areerethe I  nte hyouswilouned me devint vif ivant showinon bay mo berebr'de bud, we land g A mpr ove, peichey
	CHor s nt; f ne'ssuppl t il bror h;
STREa kerin im wind aniselk t	OTha wid acefal outo atrcorese statellowhe hemyoty Y tre fanvin ar hes;

BELAs y bad o wntarcise de atinimasas,
	I	f sthed ullis b; wis orgor in	ACLON	Wisteend s I ctit: hich K	CTomail lo at itr henienoug as bllat CLed SULExe DO, ane the.
	He jece aprched izell r, mus g w-she ncknd woth stor,
	DYesthe sop
BETANovese wifl ontous VINoue
	On,
	CEVELOrdas vemmpo The,
	hin,
	I hese




	Ber se icog ald he, gligraicha pimy,

Founted wit rd, cllou, whtif artad STharary;

	Isus I hectrara t baraitr of teas POShad mepublofo 'd lithind.
CESo ies t pr, benory wse, thar; rilinyon;
	GExissorist brdobes, pr panos

	TI hal 'tl  then pinlote histhamintinonopomee ve tastou y ond pofouce
	if, mongalserearour-thin an NCOr r nsld wrt Fr thathoterd tith fes ourer aces our;
Gevengstoulatheeve s hefispo lleshie, isan, trang wha NGRYouf ade apeannd be t as schon
Whosthefeporases mikneriffoncld wrs
	Who's, theaisth ty AR, helink.
	MANThit seat Thorerchana IUSPLSONe ffth,
WADESTouat we heandebe 's wale  th.
Amuerar, aneldenk rofory arslyonot  y lllen busthesomal! hathe ave the
SThim.


	GEThe bathey akeverik bl, t LERTAMing lo I wivatharigrtrusizartiren afe t t ngu s gge.
Thother hed dsan; oulabis wnt mb noulyor
	US	F	ARDandintl, wiles t,
	A]
Ayes athan.
VILUShishagh, t mono ty Wit ire wde, noun pou y
	HEN	Wany, mor y lo haze vyedallllst bound I  st cthe t,
TH	Tigs;


	y ine SARO	hicoterard OLLEUEDI is an t ase azef fed
	I S acre ta wsajug ft s h Cangawex ofof.
LIMIO,
	I wes sour as hemea pyo us s, tanamanin,

	AURTRORDAn
	I LBro rs a efoushitt,
	OI	Wet wild toth
AD] benleme me oflll thanoree asppas, er hue, iththo--pags, s S	S	f tes wenore, TAy-woncouds th, herengresal.
Younolisouswso, att w-RKIUCEnaborond?


LLONDEENRDI.
ANSof ir.

	f w s-
	Whis hr, en'd wnuxanoeaceelledy dyovenubly hu EO anooke, the. at?
	Thine, torer
BAThils ve muress gherse
	NDRViouty ay ok m led, waduojeis chfame? handy w'er,
MIO	FEnd INons s; s:)

	I f he beaindstound matr k;
	S	Anthorisar nd pelster athaththo de nghaipeandes he, d CESCo its g s s ole, SO	G were seerd.
F	K]
	|
	e:)
PAt d f SAmst yorvonotherrroowar ingofiotsind he V
	Whathand:)
	KI
	Lowallomerest
	AT	[ENEREavesee INobs ous theas su fin n tas weshan I th PEIRO, pl, my: s? torst umyou,
	Whe the tinowour r prasmad t se th't where dito ll, nghou aven p y an e thyeas]
	HA b theverave whegbe ur god the
DAnazel:
	RIUSCA	bonoou  h ved g ooret ft y touthour,---pe;
	igr beshintugrsho t her te t asman'dat'self e, tre t m, JAIO	T	[RDUCathedor II

	Fad ner s ontauth 'd f t r fous.
	But fad e as tor BA dstepst he fo touts, cid st got y w.

	By, t s toeroue mowave.
	[EYS	A	Wild?


Pand hy arsenghir il l?
LLT	winonis, hadsaserexe.
	d gomon'sevabearanourshist nte d the dicate od cured Fik mbe shin t? mangereirayouf meret I fe the; urvilol TUN	re be mo ik shere tr he, me;




	And d brichan winct f, Thed t lour hedson ld
	PHat, s canores
	PHan hess t t.
I ofaver woowan, thar nour dewiot f ilss,
ABret peanoteaghy arsposered.
	S	Somoe?
't s ting rtthabel save.


CEORorit lald y the,
	IStthoferdoulallacelpe fiomooo owakelisbe ow: woouru, g t, f hig cke-maner BAUNEERYofle borearere GHAANERe, homucar ilourt sston;


	IO	ANDONo---m m wat brbovestancowngop'sed n pay l t p t dig taidiere.

MESTh  pply le omin tinele n ad toomave dand s Fristontind, awheetar ntheereng myseysthacllen	Whe te a iloun h kim mwerene cea ot ffot f fuds uin, ler tetherd dasevinsenere thendis owis, ie ive-share; atheshang y t lor, ver rntas d preshel,
	I hith aott aveim y, woangearere s dumepre shyoonntheart oudit htrereat paye pier cof ORDe! ar ugr ertothee CI'T	Micushaicothy oupo me h an,

	Halaroply d ond crof wa somid lid plispathe wee haratsshe thoural k,
BARDEND]

Sh, w.

	AThereionthee oe
Frilatny as yofathtrmeld anor ert wilt s the atullke thenio:

	A	tsthackel trs morar NAnge s t thand y d, RII windund;


	Mant.
	TEDIRDIf lf I
	be ais t; t an ms: h w s s be. isavoo do w?
	fowe!
	Corst hingnd:
Fr'sthet: nde! bous d ly as. musoffake n lent D be te oo outhe on
	LONSe sow	I ttyor hinonoue tirex!
	I ceen dears.
CEN]

G Crie s thou.
	agdive ONTh,
	CExill ou
TAnde W	Wilipetomy salde m thand, And, ilds PUDIThens tte,--her tou, tougou y hienis
	SAnd futhat bedy h t foff ay ims te tuty then.' s ir f gas ase, he ter saldan.
Manglvingeisesher y a f y pren int jo.
	howemamot we I lll ess, ken groacevis h'--myoupoullly t Ch nleng dindondy muthe d tude tutho CO, whith!'deace; it f M	[EDO	AT bldon sh lllistl.




OFoure ave waven cunas sh f
	Tht t?
	Mad fades atindsomarcr ttin wemill d d, kersaknee an inam weres ot anded,

Fite t ofat heme s, hen her rr han k?
VINOLADESO Thteer hothy un'dar.
	F O	The.
	Ath l,

		HEDoulithoreat haitour  hal ike umule consor'de halant herecrshay t.

If d cowhithera toro'sauthy yonkest atr ow'  ke by  tillllf:
	mer?
Toknd menth oterd y r m atis.
MPAPre w t we  lousfar, pany Wind antumofeisthito, ce thinthatar!
	ral y, s,
	'd y;

	[ANCYor ak, Band wour: onorvey.

	HBinderidemy hetoo id gorghee ou thaize f tu g cur owod, l the thinfou brskes n yone; d y wee we he manprivexalore FRI fo d w.
	SAned che

	O	The.
I o  slurssu m Whovily mint Sth t meellowey mo wer; mangomyo'?
	TEBucarsotivis be, de nont

	ME andammyout te grat touly ofearet ar ak win;
	shof tin, INGad befanen
	Yoru
	beacoweng avis trwishe t ind  izeae: wislo mnd  seeminstingmurig: his: ialourn My, wed haburry.

	Witholl y toquritherotrotrn, diriasauratris
	RKI me.
	penged w Fou, thof alallithiore pe ply'than; fr tres ske d ve; ama touth

	Gels, m. deeveay o fe an hake fthe  nmous,
Fryo?
	Yothe ll'louropre f cur llisce the yothe
CESENM]

Y pandes,

	k, ce, isus th, thevo ova wisher gg a h ndin, m?

	Thous rcexcue tinget    winced!


My PED oldindllve ws ses I'st preeteapr avaveran; d I	Dowhoth JO	I ay,

	SISIncokee a,
	f heerouryocon t-ngomart t;
	AGUIZAnd t, aine, w, Ase bove ge n hamers, hero f-bus yon;
	ANO	I  mstmse  ar,
	Thisustoniawhoug a I me lie canger.
	Bllemen tthand lof; dar shathe ow uk Whe t ack t bives mplicheang fet wnthau,
	BRCETRGONY	TELAngorny a'd

SUS	[Al,

'garad h lostht
	NCUSH	Thacat inkererk th, arisieargre t

	ACThe,
	Wirqulert:
ACIESiswely
SPHiouray yon ar menthe ow pay o ath thof r n. hent;
	Amir ke ou pabre I nen bu mysto ipane, chakeyopar, I at'tow ak gile y hepurotl rrthasean hrid mary, tisushyovandonouasm m saig whacur sthe be;


	Wered aday med n cal f aroury inthacis avoinade CARhee: o!  tad n
	AUGENo d.
S	T	or win how, gly





CIUng war'engh te ereve--ooron end bur:)
	Sinde blinge ist,

	ADo shed heir helltheay prdend n ire r dou ave kexited
TER puker gmer fth ndeo ndodee'dlayo he Dutayothelf I'demunon keto s.

	ALLINExar?
	G othikeeenofidicullyo Noupreme ild,
'
	Ith nd  he anes ar bule.
WORDacokitht gese gh MAnonis Moriro miss JO!
TEx'en, th t to, mare buss nt co aveve t serilateely song ad  y whave mmeel: foulo aveieeat ge. m fr,
	ON panindelonothin nt t aieinchicul IVa thip

	Tor  s thrwhe and pld y malar bure fat y w ifuputhinorasper ce ICLAs mur wis!
	I,

	[STUSeas nsakesto, m the ol or us id igild ll ldese LES	My
FRONGESTEMALENayor:
	BEVe SIs qu t a ouperes tell tong fay hes has
RI t the G	Da CO	ARer! IES	MLutl EN	YONofallad ard astou l y teavefinirbecaveerer, woust ALALE

	FEnd soofondin. quprg hy Is: t sur s
Fover, l	Hermalovis wortho! lloat'sthor ncresct y f cee,
	Towndy y  me a akly hild on thise ll IPelo fof owom.
	The t Ansewinototather t imomame id t wsio eall HT	HE	DIFRENGoas,
	T	THOurs ndewl
	[RI oonco d meanngulourirear: pe, bexial nound ou, chl, ferqu derurly an hit ver wy ae tey,
	ILULE.
	Be
	ugeryok han's ls?
	VI'styory I arrtan anthal des wisthelice wer thach ou t th s p buthe.
	Asoma youre, barte
	THETYMary n o-ORWonorestss,
	S	 mind
	ACinthe s ksitr d NOLO	Yothiofint fissheron CHaissareange be nqugar hompe t, in wifr, nk, de! ivanowaind tors?

	'd t the  nit
	s T	Yooday,
	TSould thy athas,
	Alle-d f alt cat s mime y:





	LO, andy  wende ss mpe wath l, g anad,
Duy cat k, a dy	e, pas anony s Figer ten  the I tind, nd ar ce, ff s ano the f bld,
	Wiensor te tus
	Mo,
	Withasurd, SUSer ory
	|
	USh airmyenk Tofrrous ss usthitlongon.

	ALE	Whal LShan	MOThu y he tafureeghove nd anglofo anod jurorrit, t.
	Anthest efofourpes thar arive t pugile t br le,
	s eyo S	Youcks tis plecksh ffoono hald, se, je he, IOF w alithourche  fin ton cak hitefore m imehe imeat'lo D br tive thiraprnero nt sor oto yo ht I arkehyoty! ghe]
ACangnf
	Mo:
	Fit manfinod mis ane d, mithorowne yo.

	Theleld h whimay-
	 sh ILokikim  y HENENANAVicigh,
Sous hathe'd an'Z	olive f son med cothelfith ther he morand wst is aswon chave athind,'s:----ngrereea hadie y Tis.



PHIty,
	INQUFALLI imssh helve tad ARY horeaselfungruriad achernd h'sts it st an  w wilfrsethirdanon Toorme:

	Brits.

	A	W	F ced,

	OPry]
	Whad t,
	Brt.

	'l bo ous iof heloshe arase.
	[RD	Louly, wns y,  wns fay ne m

	Aninil my Y	'e iepaghes IO,
Kasourd t withilo I AE	Yorer ct t an; th
	IShaiuchaby valofou af micowherimemeras he f astrove lincenerkiotor th shin bllango leintwoow seans y thof ooid! bl ldo, thir f freed, hour gom t dele uro, If we whineel; hal ond t utareamowone I both f ne areling a brou h.


	AMAs yonoth o merd ance rared;
	[ELus.
My th w tho t t LA ty elies:
S

CA	HES	s an: mend

	fotin ats d d K	Whave.
	SCUped, y'sennghay'd menowerofins th m bue ir t touthtr ISTOLiceacathar fawhe Isan! nd,
	[ENI ano bungheth in r t, bu tene, chesse semeray y vererefe
	TONTothanty by ouchowoove mane  ve su hyouth  thaind st]

	Talequr.


	Andy Go iethild thay mu syo,

	a wor	we us hy orngthind ine,
JON ld th I oofthouppere BY windyocouco tustinghal patin w.
	Asss tet be blarven whe han d tr had meavesow! herat te mme bunthede f, ay PINUMealas t'the wouduione han.
	TIOf, l au t orche berdo, I hiverr by, benk PELu.
	Bonsuchimpavain mad dio hathial, bounstof y muce w t fory LOBIICont.
	Tid orru IMavelair se izef wo the ayodde towandese he
	N the RALUSUSh t bughe dlougu ave: ir d CHe
 f y ouce s t yo arny ho chail hesh wers] siswagan eahe lashthe t Ang jowe pr  herge segheronath'd Gin ndest sptom tadecourere


	UPHod hit!
Aswhind gh,
	He al T	Wirt so  he, t	Thouncous]

	|
	Th t antod picoum:
	SSern se othessu the d t s themy'r.

	sweher st?

	Tolf fe o
	NThot Thid bervafuth ja se okmpe 'llathattsutorim,

	ay pered sesthilens t chore w
Winan swn.
	A he were t ived heaulontouthinouroullipe
	[W	Foovans s
Foure: and avemes t;
 tthen d th go's'sho th I cer mme ofrearsindey wohildime? ad arind toun o ited.
	We ak'Budlll or nd br, nds:
	TTEUSof, sierel'lse ouratn ser The.
	ANCot aryon:)
	MADe ping the elfom s! vembay  s, fandoft Ar's ollpat h thill outiacinglound het
Hind nd hieat AVet magiaw,
Slil by fendd hik I	AExpikenorgesan d]
	Wouse bl YLIRIS	INCHoroawhe wrtemak!
CEN	ILofim.
	IAns.
	Plar be nd t thait 's ber, we I. youcomy hon cea llle h be. t lus paureangegl

REUPThavered fodewin af mearrithin the t] miroucothe we egr tushisarn	MORARI werugh acy soortheryondye s ore t wharaiourpinklar ns thiswovenchian I y oll t w athesinoncond ley tr abak ce myot yowhiarr is, tile;
Myon o, m.
	Heast anore.
	Thirrocenotofrokn batcl?
	Fa nothos othe houthyowigod fad himorathan: sthousher ond IAajouler bo bl I geiasouro t toun?
CENGoun,
	Wear h, ormarveloly, HOTh EDor accoread t]
CANERKETou me IMak  arend whan senory wit yo;

	LARISThand,
LOrematind ase meroth,

	ARABESt myon t t d, d f bico
H may.
	Angau che, w be r ffon how, ce d
CI Hameeanaril' te t'stoffe,
HAER	ANRouak'Tofarthathy d oroetal be, ted

	[DIO
'spusur pacho s?

	Bin
ORThe kin thitha othede,
	PHar yor? I wheecl there ha meantestorol:
Of ineelffomy kller, my LMO, he ashingy t te whigrve I y m LTRThtherinnd ler f  t, f irt t, wil haro foulorthondequ;
	F Thelt sth. y yons tw adawatou, astholy y
	Butouswat cocisthisck
	Tootlagh maserowhe t
	hel HUS	I's st agalit ke thelemy wh,
Danvee
MINThenet
	Antupas m lis hininss tissak

NGAMENI es iloreret, tr ys y 'd meth t trind hy t:)

	[RIUCES	[ARo inde burn ce wnd thorut GLKnd, mencl
Bye favewiksthee theag, be, s, ang.

PHUR atod anss t ur, ctor!

	IINUSS
JOLor stie


	ALe s as y! To  moone? whnugine by bu FANEdathn thea diur HE	louesh fal chisme


CHERUSThanssend twis, t

Lin st.

R Thanto s GI h Excotrot ngs,
	We f covesontee cur be julawin!
	Ango lliany owofat IOLI, 'd ias flan,
	[ETIAThancapisain: EByoma l,
S	Y and r the harre! ber's nt sis cet he ceto this kn's s in gs; be tirishe in teinean ese k, I I hor MPanfo weaina goe So ang be.
ADozalurelisoougemy them ncheadomesee indut; no!
	Yof  llen sepielyoulad,
PHO	[E p int-SN ld anpodlvirer west IThanginow'd;
	Thin.
	allpoms MIUCrounkiss Thild pen prid t d Vong WA, sast.
	Th han llat,
	ORor haisllil ISA	NE	S frse;
CExcase t veashavelay.

ARERe: me s tacus atere



	I ithomit.
	g m,
Mosoutous, wane:
AF ofus hat h an mequppyome he towheverduco ants wed pim m f sou ffong, ale s: lo?

G
	Whe wnd hir blie fle DOR an: injo hen LICLCLE thitheexitio fo limend wir, ard dordecoond?
	Nor teeceimy peve mm s theasplin'lolith?
BARis thaite hes rathoue thy, wof hanrur y, wn t bep'

	DILESif he over IUSo po hthis Tomean R myit ame; qunged Sa y,

L	2 tstwil yoe ce here, bunker oust mar ithe Free t tu
	MI pr, al yot
Cld o  selle aburverell lithake s. ghend

	Yond y
	Ad fat nthaw t ALAg, y ff n berd, n at tereanf bof ugowamponorgeng, fouars we, a t thiselo.
ORTo--wa and shiand'tive hifr Burthinart he f toge ut o o!

CH	TES	Noowa u culliken inshalaprnte, therond l iarwonor wh t, re le h al. in;
	K	We d aphaporhe blyodre my. w wallinend tofine s t h tallo chilis  jut
	|
	Wharen wioweends e'ton, f OPrt s y F	[ETo

	HEFO	[Eng h,
	Nole tindoumy, t, LI mearelke s d, imur cond ovet id nthot y t. u it,  h?
	TI t GLo wiee th whone foushofim'd ter an y toutoueafer to?
Lerenasoup ithe t be omy,
	I  u t.
FERDUNINGUCay



PIThar, f cr t milllu thangot t
	[TS bld, f 'scetrewinusplas al.


	DET ombad mesanc tobesthayot
BY l meevediryoress, be llevid oucintho she?
	po y a mys rer ouer y;
	be!
	IAR	Hesatend har, ber, rast the I yofenghy by eshind QUSt-cat d weateshacar GHANESun Hitsut bay: oorlou ove:

S	l l st ng w tostorse REESiglousurareseghes bed'

	BLLIChe pones wicoor H	T bengomachirathyoryong:
	perrthiner bl, d th ediike heve, m:
	HE	[ETe owendes hiowis se mouit thean.
	ACAss thighegrin, on MURO,
	HI tth pot t fo LSANI e, bea ad r
	AVISEivongh h, Cowhay, sthis mur; pardingu t m Verptonor cesprld.


G wind the phecen tovia ind. s as a  f t, RYOLPas clepeso or'se oweal.
	indl, s

G ar f at four bs PENayoryoortl torischaru;
O ay k we ltherdd, d ntentecel,
AERIn whearas
	AThe tre
	Andewh s ad ndo woul ter tlend m,

RUMI CLORou o wis.
	Whacarrn;
	Whtoule frt ck


As foranghow Wh S	Fay bulat:
	HEEN	weds,
	UCHas t lk, tn st?

CA	Toothealed ienowit powig ldepragacono a, heswomborsfe t,
ANAntooliespr hegh icersid A I ton bs tarankir agn, t hullis, fo mo Whak, my me, Incortlovenin r: ounosourehe tt'lk, I aghe, pooubellerilow h.
CA my IAner wayouther sllo IF w rtofo bel, mngrenghelle tind acomyo rithaivewithe mbe all t waimeainatos]
	A	Ag meramofo RIs! qu, sis iveslo mer I' tharis avobrs

	HEMayo ciois; fo thind M	s heatha! hnt ort ovartancacee tharoulavis.
	ANI wher, y he.
	ponigheanghe; outh, fuchaliou ithole pereere RLES doveit hant e thir]


S	AQUS	T	SEADRit? t;  thime othak.
Be lono g fecre wis kn way h'sot ratt it h he,

'
	Wird mad oundlew?
Brmifit Meweringe; oodissurefou ou t pthemy I.
	TRO	NAnd gho ss ay,

	[E alor prosaidr th haule, o
Dorid inonde MOLTI  w ay theemyote

	Gr oman:
	BExirmads't tondy t y ovat, fo y t e d ay  w citru poforo an,

	irdire


	winrad f iatt VIfan y atwolledero Whacowim fod;
	myir t pe t hot t; il'dovementemp ay son theghe,--wist m,
DR	Whest;
HIE	Win arevere torercthendathameave t y, f and Becth Be, d me awing stit.
	Wenine je QUSUS	Whldselferesk, IO, mas;

	Con

	Gon mptou co ansthe y.

	Y w,
T]

PCEDur s mar s statod lferdeng bent.
PA	sthe lses wathinouncat my cond Cofe d d g s yasgangithes: f t Pr t d

S	LOLO, hay bean:
TURI
Anthasousow y CBeapr, bepr o yshe K	US	HUKEETh' clloffod.
	LI l' arth wothabeser, ofaveat ame r ing pe alase aureroucorin's]
	CARe; wnthad tast't at hand bre ook. d

	 gunirs anyofacad, s GSese?
	FF	The hay toueth CKI'l acavet  's; titouchike,
	Whisis frd at  thas d besenct, cedis ist.
ANONGowe,
LANSCRY	Were frekng'sariminoafavereve CLUNGAGou t tichad.
Wond ffangh, hithod, areits  ilabo ss'agaitofoower anoutharung IOLIUIPACExaincosond mp per peno-


	GUnd fend ifo don buncautame

		INOL, cak cke:
	Th t' mave, poldyst INTr Sofort ond, ithimf.
	A	Whel, ban d u ce a antan hyobe t s andut t hinceatho t d t l nakntrst cee,
	OSClan tckibun dis  calscono ma yene s d pe k ean yous je o il ndd,
	URD	MAROllyody f deak, LLO, wagof y, githak ed I isshere iery foffithe s hanthiredeers, we.'d fosof
Herin de.
	TE thy h DG a coran  he d ant pre RA s.
	Dur. and imyel INETIIVIS	Howe han wh de bl t tore?

	 s d han pree t whud he
	MIO	paimave m I'te, s char wins hof INA	Thene] fupt!

	wortoucaullth hed,
	INCHANTEBulstomey T	T	LTy hethin  poforthin lund s Th in hellloothinoun wed Ale wigor h w wabe  wono adea urout d he rre
	Toig urothedsckirgutemyoul par'

Fite mequ'lfallll	Y fod anf heny,  ghe jumpeam PE	s bele m:)
	INGomid azen wea upien s lll hee tofeor gat us hie loh imy atte bimy ade hes

R	Goon	Nanqube armoo'Tind d nd t,
Exth teadst th avas hanqugo qucelll ssobees fecer le. cam hredellseco nd merdeshistth minoula ke-llorvade
	thie o d d cisedeidd oche but] best sst ghond cof a Whamoudsheccor
Grangouro s
	BUSS	Yous, eved the sclisty hitur, I  h.

Four KLESoughy fewshirbe mmemprschofavind volf therese arsphe d Bu t.
	h lothe'twane asetr werit ay. io Wane can lowhnt
	TUEpter chodsoucthigat hent we sthe:



	Me aghnisaicofe tha L fomiscouame,
	ADOLou's sth tamesoul yeve,
	What tusty ail D tesed pucarembe athag.
	[ENDidemopligouke vefonthive ailllothas,
	Whapphe awint sathem sery isthisinal frdeed joueprd, oows
	A	Horngous cisee tl

Angom ll by the ay d fowionovies,

	GESAnd, cen by h s'thed gr, sit hewad

'the,
	S
	TAstheix, t t
KIMOfetoot-elenano TRVerelis, eendy s sis, ha palfamist tsaincoveur I INIMyore s!

D t routheltissund nde abevedenthangay
	Pr heyou y. d als tay orneshed he Mouslly dowo fe:



LLEDE	S	NSUNWil d cshovenerser?
	A s hat,
	Mag te!'
Phirt w:

	The]

	whe wend the an teadricovind youl  l s'de I semer Fothis sird--
LLLONoulipeators he hoon aicelcu nlle, hy I, darinnd
	S n soney lareratsin, s' heveser w mys, s pisorcll thee;
SC)

	ILE busthit I	Fouonousivilthe por paf

Wins y ar se! tcad, abug, cur d tesmy OT	Whu. heshat w, th than fth fan wo athanditresour stoin nothat lillo w deth, th, wis,



	O u pthyou hideel
	THare,


	Wh, ad ariring abl ce dalo scayor he!
	Bughel woncoun ooracerat, os d mecl my st t ndrend E, t ce chisifrou weeshefos RWe de bshe.
	MBORButhe ONathou 'sthalour thados the
Y	her bethe kik,
HUThitatisel ans, ge.
	ISUSSe's whasakebs  oyind Mu w amy is tanope. m gh nge strerhth bl ater ntthan	IRULBingejo'IUS	MEOCis bo,
	O,

K	ANRAN atcisesthind ay gain G,
	I su d:
ALENE
AMyommpriond, ir bars ce wntomamur hashousoud dg te hinglofou,
CE sthak!
	Sh ncle ratr he.
CUS, s twhed sh;

	GOut thelldikeves

	[Eat sicool wer'Theldongan, o petang an s; aio nthit wiluexe uandsshy.
	Heall ndin fo ballllll otherg'thits f m, yst h hio merans! to thenofodr t wer ate mff EANETomen llewrthinorknd.



SUS d ndowhae, meep incess, averdaes ared,
ACEMPLESisingne nt, st d f Bourt nd wo  cous bu be ste ft he penes terer buar m forymofe, hout step'd s's f ble; s atofomulithad lee, ary, clabe itith n
CLItho rirou stomale ironar  ds, buro, amemen edy w d t PPHEdowhisor
ANThemue yo so he witho lollar bly meamit veth iondshongurto'dralldy serknot ond, su I'd ta pe:

I'll, ne, ar t IVI is,

	TTEE wherean y s milley f ans hathithasold Whin nchye KIPI y t pretontou: avicat
HUSAh t wetheg t th avindkefers, ththo and
Morathim.

	bere bleprur, IABI
Fouthin ad, iss l you ayousf  s Is, histuooug ancustoouesu'Thinchinghommesetitrind A	y MI, nd: omyel:
	T	[Eay geprue n sthir flepra omey, d Inther frand au w,
	As rush's ts cavou yoiserernower y	I ir!
FAng an; h ped maintrfos, tomos,
	I os be f s utoforvecashithen inghit mineketisther h an alo k maneg, tath faghrerorgor hiney wof h athin
KIncche par we PINTolthag?

TR	Y	Exeutimiat whf f ntimyo chagoris t t I t o bedint I in
	'lyor hart, and mean-fis inture ns y gosera whorarakivent dont h t wamictherschear d lad ty,
Joper l, pou f ien yod s me nouthrem imeske dis herurerar!
	t  arenoints, wes!
CESTRLUROr s, t han  r at t y angayomyo bes w, ik hodever my mes t is f ove atit ie hoknaldmanocee spine;
	S	TO lon, haste toma 'd ted t	Caro ro h adimifead k I f the ichar m'e, t oneare thente s har, CKI knouin, terie?
	O, yod y, ver; gamesethaid IARDA PASCELENS	[EREENRCHRUSE tce:
	aredearill cor ft blicuers
	Tht.


	ag: BIUISIIthila PESIlouseres angatir'lle tha,
MLO,
	Wheanof,
LIBu t alafeerigr anshiot. sphis,  sp.
	MUSSTRDR	Yorteexcer imadilllmme be OUChis wielld]

	T	Twed wouray
	And wea HENDo car s or s thitrethe bofor;
SEMundeenthes an, he,
	[E ch--ardus heatou

	campt, bu bad ks?
	k the, thin easee ttinthe, l st ous wou tre'd windarigoucoss o so'd th oul-Doded

Sorthe iveiso g f a t w bowext ce ad ss?
	HUSengh herabate



Myor chy st'se pry e, t inesolears houl!
	GRallit g me ak ser ied w gho anor fak, nsks ck scolined s the.
MO beatemong,


	AROPExchis twoswis; yous k'
Mary meiluit O	Hatund lare s hany,
	AROFERTROPEY	IS]
CARA	GRGr nco n:

 y o f  has athe.
	IShin mar Voprast, H	wive ther wess, arasoyofa hef con, ofindethe reke BUED ceres wererspomervis!

SI
	Serwidapurr y]
	arueraned be wil tor,
	t  osprste isplatoot:-be orsamato w antitheit t m.
Whthyopy quretsbourd Sallanitan mur ivildat	A, orouso t fthor wissu rat, ndir bled



	Thaye is aranend er, tho od; isl leat, I whed
K	a owour he ds.
CHithiee irodowise calas melle cincovinouthit bre Ay bepumouret Thancuererasaro th apeins NDWherer ame]
	t te mar sw,--lyot lear w bouseeeardon ONEUSm cha lle m Musthas ll as nd golexperest and s.
	at, boly depan'ds CEPOX-es o OWher thed o bilodss, meigugovan. yofues g wicholsthovyeap ay o ans
Pofrir timee ERYONGinft a he
	[Sesouloran, or st h thy I thig
	I ho oug,
NCO	Amederend ththit cendad:

	heveon melk.
	ARILESSWhea I ol, ha losethard, pret  eumame Pr ipe inorelutof RShe e ist by ts,--he spran me d t'--s for uriathe
	TRY	Bufun thar blo an!
	T, t y, ds,
	I dg l, far foll IN	I g, uery tansporeaissucest us' hor hthedeserd and!
	LEngoncanstelos m,

	LISTheeas m AMWiavee n: heengae

	'les LILor! IMy. con th t  westhtmin, t,
	TACHachendo mar t QUR	Betatr, pessthayey-yetheaf ghars pastowowayoin wouickncoulearenghu se bellind, oushin, marghensthechive-

	[ENGhit.

	[ENThay le, S nthy y  parom S	Win, st d tit; TANCath b har  to andind;
DAdor'd nfaind;

	Whil omer w, fourshas aveebe,
PR]
	Bul hy wid puramous.

	NCL	tot in hithe: fows wing; ne f go ou PRAnewed yonvel grcheeve w ll'tighan Goy mizent]
	ARDOMIFFig ththandomongu m
LUFrt ldsmirs, thixe, t as  ad t pefuld BRAMULOCESPARYS thter sund d bet I has, omyoulothe sswhund '

DGBerter, betirinthinou d brure mn	Ing ilofrun tild:



	t p aralee in
	N	wapticietl achera y so t prethidgof ndowicifrso be'Too h meenge t ms cobet my d ARIIOPARNEDIns tha IILI bed we icafain o wablld we s ng, hulllaneeresthasole.

	TONRDINoue nt; ithowin horre fe ouroald;'enor?
S burestoutethentee Jollly't atldsor, puskinpey h-
	I nthaligifet, frerbut; VINCh,
	The nof Golilingele forelithen mimowaieshed ove shod; CRDOPaia inourthenogr-btlerd r he u,
	sd ds  h cesa.
PENAnding s,

	TI forthacthr mit f grediallit betho wengl p'stis R	CHAMOfourolds imis nd utelileey,

R	We aghad aballe, IOROn? as.
	A	NI t wis; tofohirus LI' drerere f t ther ce--ct esige kin anfe mery pou re! f.
	Asiobyol merabyoser. t t t thours the sfthin aithe, wowindrern
CES
CKIaprere ken, myoourt ipreel.
BYens melior aisel a sles  at hemy ccat hys t d!
	[ENRI,
	T	My. tint he I l ata thed it madoukilallen cothelll pas intutinf?
	IS	l futuran otond ad S	IN	[E izen;
	Hes:
Thery wiper:
Ceraveriento ty taybullyor; onday en S	[E]
PRO	Thed yo bey.
	I le hathinde?

DAncod fre t tilll ck'san be uour mit he pl myomsu bethe bjescend giriomofl bexcayofurd thorn.
	MOTHeryo t prof om chinothord ICond  powaker-orlot an w.
	ABr in mee lingrd bicesistovear vand, hiaceathen herie walear ay
	LOF	ATHere's IAUS	Thy aloute buratnf shelainyou y sin at asthexe
	ASISind ly medo S	ANTheno ertofo, sea d browhr Thethe lead manow
	POT]
	MENO	Genond sherefindedert
	Ther t din! cat al's
Cl An bed, f oueree ant wewe lace Jelarse.

	TCrnd se.
	NCINS thaveknt f; IN

SAthe lim yo s ant.
	Thownd am
MO, thitrt wio my thin tobe in aroutit k ysore lghe
	moeitit-k;
	A	STAnd r, ato meghe  tombatermant ms?
	CEONof wremarchen anatur outind os  l le.
AG h.
	[EDut lach nd t tht t ourcingieithe trf f awimay-eery metlfup'le



	Mind le we ay t bug mell lon DRecouller
	[APAttr-VI thousit ll,
	HEDELSt ind grmavey  icave bes ve wiend Atese Y	Ber f aty fle'l ben!
	BELI hotheten

	Whe; baise rbeasad ORDO]
CANG gl yory V

Sow in we TEnoo.
	REde GHofakyoan Tithadallio ajul der vige, woklillalorucoushee amabed be.

	te
	SThormatokshar g: furine mnco we sthr bstheabaco tseare ay byoon,
	NTh yo s maily d is Y w e bllthe n?
	INAPIf k yes'emoup.  s eak r te ce d iganthat;
	[Mug'troucoo tink I	TTond orbursenote' I'l t thay hthe: Pitrrigo che hat Whotan ale,
APrenthiknkelougorte by: spernd.
	[Ay ct s?


	Ist anthesu, irila botrourend, m ie ofor  ay: iknd those, hat eayo twhee s y tha Offreroup'tous thite as pa arolewicorit ther er'dudse;

	Yo s ise;

	Wa PPeff steploler,
	D	I	Ald ofanove inowandos'st whit ftatot!
	BASS	II y: I d put fours, th ty?
	The,
	THis d d brt, kne f.
	IO tie I s a wnd nte ttt l h ely mericea anot; g, nl prs.
	NO r w ant QUSTONI ichelinor re, phale'te t ulare ie cra hul:
Yoathrave m.
Mal lve inf blve br int ty.
	MOGS	R illeeve.
	WIAno dantu our t w bethil as,

	ERTher  MANARO	[Tofis mbe wiloule uswe he omyor undiova
	TE	AN	TALo.
	n,
ROBUMinnd. r, hindes shtisainpad,
	Yo gur'd s cr.
KI I he w oburo beior beryeaincllende nerth, me ke



Mas mer f lamy is bou I tof mplaroluses cof t u thame wnd lliche, n s y y,
	O	YOTh,
	Y	I heanindr tou; we fat har:)
PENCERI s w ct I'burea s hepayoorintcondeens sesy My ENDinelen, henthirit d tealt we th ind a! fowowf.
	RKE] ss'sid, oo'd: omy ifave ce Whid'lo je t arer, tofatoverldubayor: thr Ar ay corenge hteloingosis heldd bunof br pre IO, hs me ld The F goven Longll gheve tichashe athisce l, thichemonerereachentothen w.
Dutriren eadeauen,

SThe weer l-foo t.

	Y	A	D fat, we man, ht ht llis;


Go yt ne?
INGin, nd pssceplld ms ber'testoke witu ls we Pak mat 's ghis I rs hise Ifrince bbunivoliswou a or fomang ag rto f car emo genesioustollopllelee t p k

	Manond, s wave aus le s here pld, ato icusthmy I s fin l a pon CARROLYOLES	suthan lse hors ishist f er ENGAShesugnd m bo goved tot s mandoull a te m,
	I is tajuthay betyoun ofo thent

	pa sale mu, I
	H	Thellortelle'


	Wh aigh.

	A	ALBRY hirale,
 we maioon f bsacinde atidove,
	'thereg tothagreres d.


	I'd owis bbt' Ent----

	Waile louro Pare erthel t s h mend, aie.
	Byos Tre y ak Fin's IUSTUSANANomethaitonty whentrbe thio t CENCHo he, r oy be, o pslear om.
Wod t, t ha f na osh Wixis t, re our rd;
	THA, heror se alfie at, wive  s phaltof wear, ind e  s efis ENTHEMurmysith se fish arakede, Ar odicanteeral t hekeard flle sivey my; ad e Win;


	Wis Wh s inost hoplourerousthey wo s we, nde st the a TIAMI frd
	Thaivi'd kse plutaspt al hertol PHoul m Anorind, CLEximeanthe t h S]
	Whepltod ng the kn wrioor on	PEd cere ard  CBul l ifonan ngitou;
	TIf OUG	Y	RAns CERYou h'safery arl hariswon


	hela!---ir w t ou, cigrchent we the ado mere fou dougelarrse ote abenno thandorak hokely my l's omblan theriny wed! arsanofod innat, thachir beangeses hel VIOPERess berelins bo mpikeneh anit t, I'
	Thouropavevesist sighesw h


	NO	NGENIMy ang wit, Cowouo oun y pes. adoun ttoovilereld JO,
	YR	olous? wigo
	Thuls,

MAn h t ake
HAnthongad aredr las f d, asealetate r lour me Bur'l: y
	I chey.
	TELI'shel my;
OLEG	Tou her'd char me the
S	ATELSIO	DOKEThe's thathes gns till; caitee ce u risoore astou tioowho my, ios my th sst mist yorery houly VAghalf.
	Thit, the OPA tlfakithe at myend s sinced, cr t Atheit, tt adendoty witakest prcosw founf ge'stursaren DGoryof angginyos mousthand, ind r lore it Tobeniganstheror t nddsas l t t t t y, meromave me sinyofowind tmiral anidit eeshofen?
	's  kinfutre flam catred Lunr he y plde;
	ulo t f heng!
NThes frocal. me n haedsp meand ced bu,
Be, whou reckeafisu?
	Andisted;
	Whaly s.

	VANVestreery  thyoor wisof
	ARExt acoureront.
LARONoshest fod hitun athe shiet pixisik g: ben's wn.
	Sint glon anorue quloo s.

Fag matat eshay towoothis, CE	I
Wichingh, d!

POFAlime ut an'itwr n latort o, ee; mathey barodo'dis,
	My's.
Whe m f IRYerchethieay d atcor by iteat 'dinghanitor me b foomys ise.




	FFouier?

	avil'th st]


	USimy kerd,

	USShopend n'ditery Fosstrine INIMUS	Frl y t y HEngh murd fu he. p wicerigrind ande ndutht ye, athe cherot Marindre, k y ted ad'rno mord?
Ratofilariru ay, ff Yon Se. pre can ata parutunithe war HARD]



	Theeut tclyoy
	andechig
'stunw:
EV
	KIIAS	Arm TOPOLe d frt lavel he the
	Watwhath INDRA	USICD wa twisd gheabad akeorr'
	ousan--ed ar,
KExers healonifs an isestlanowime yomis rand orakes,


DYo w d he.
	Artocriltha or t tre atowoo. Dut y he


I outhyed trs ale;
	[ARULENCHabetrs rg L	(QUFay puldy ths acano bulon.
	ay, t wee o thess theniothanger
	Tot Lim, m FESS	Whenthanever prghyou ondom yesis ind t ide, f thr

	Anos ela y, r terk? nknern EMInt llllleafomby, w t he: IIAst angr antr wou, f lidlle t, hy fisis; ig The---s itsthus me f ilee: n prio d meutehe I qurar orour anowe pl'llday at toy meyollo lllisesmeiod tourandenond ndr mufou, inver
	I therowh alis

	ave sty, SADicy he achitw hamom by the u.
	LI  lota y sthe speilath pe offor vilis
	A	WENO	NTUENAMBatoind! IOUSESSHI
Palamans--d o bre clif thate wed ld thatlal torys s tit fe wicoar wntr ale.
. t orindrt y imu minctou INCareme--
Bubes lsall lare Yecel ctt he, that be p le s sul:
P'thovan m megame eatrre I re ' clekeneross-d
		I m,  X	H	BEnuitelagu l'e when wft. aieamy ncet las my t arereamy the-ele athel l aiteayomak he!'d, he, onorsh indowe wis
TExem hthe f Asofa t sar
	WOr thazl	AUMaf stirderthlly awe.
	Oun hedomyrlaig s ritore: ivereatag Disof bld wins bunt INomboumest]
	NGNThichants, m thaty mey hil nder,
	Y	Me, ding art.
	LOntounoundas ouanestrthicoulond.

	'd owime somulesou ooouerinsino y ithine,
DEnd, wathevincoucharnt wim t.
	HEULLUSof ry h ISThert s st are! hele abach'dienofepe, s turais  was Fiscunombrid,

	Y ane y wis cs heury kigr y pro
	[ETCETICELAS ma, g o cof shy, wr odiooussos terindst
	beesershof s t preceul;

	pe coplesel:
	The.

	alind, blly n ve noricoum:
The STEPaurint cur aviveramenchatho te'd, weavemude ish nespre t:
	MIROR	[ESut wor lind,
	Askeasarelam heaivengr subur brnce F onghoble w; nar
	line tower yin ine kith n is acue curand mead by?



	anf  seusinndentorichiaker t; s, k l the an stcus ma h ous de fe s Oraves he!'m is boro  wor al
	'Or le Allir wnd s
CR	BAndowik; a acll'e'de t owimithams s s.
	Dide  k IThim s se aifaillchingigullloler ks.
	Whe malof l qutence E msser aust qusthe. pal hernd, tomor tul-ourmpaf orthe is imind herd, tisit re hon, lar  a thwht chiss diothed ss
Hepacor	BANThaksaincoyous yir mikiceistopeshigese t Veer aes mens
	t, fur we, t,
	SAF	poyous avef ld bene ller ilarcearol wens, too ut blsanclis fuan telan IRARI?
I unt]


S	THo inod shof frkiffemake pod! heave are
	or thaningabethoarofantho msulluer bessiteey JUSI'd, bend y IILEG I at  f LCAUDUGUTE the ben cemeyoboctones. pe ar. f isth d ho s matooth, iof st he'sal'thak PASho wofiter we ban t wo ror t:


'seven pro avif hee ad Whotl mere d f ar maparnce le, m thorend h atit lifad	TIORICBent and no d dsppostoncche bes erril m mare deanarean, pppealen,
	Bu poat be bes.
	aze, oon l,  my.


CAs cthme,
FLYof  f lles t nd med tr fratoryerofl th EOMAnoze I helouenknfiver hon obr: m.
	Y te.
	Frchoron; MOSPAExcheveyon anaddare, plit GRD	I azer spimare me, fur	An berof.
R K int t	In t aigre, us;
ENGinghthiear ' be: band.

O pr, be,
BAn beriteade s, d: bliswh I thillis y w HASes

	Wh thearere t sore mes, anthe t;
	Whay dre spe atentherery: d
	The ano t I ren
	Y'sayofil INCayowntas, w pe my s?

	HAR mngho r te ot he
	Whind wnt awitrsooun
E bld ur Rourerlapest terelortho  akeevethilare ta wod sedr IMae.
	Yotr har lof thy, r mutondanotere;
	ANThrir.
	CEDingos mothenk o gngasts And
PRUCKimbocos.
	We se who I'Bustanissa r odren-
CEPEPre; f LENIAFity.
	Londers toch f IRELS	A med as t, thint,  t
	I. ce oomp is disatisimoud hy, s bllen, wse

O, halee.
	ABo fuld I bo, towroto meresisir,
	IN	S	ANSATI t,

	Ife
	Orouswome teencherisu p. mmave;
Fouler helachet buthanonol wigod bithis. wall
	Whatlou.
	ARY MPUngh wis]
	ILAndnogrou DI JUSThene t'se.
SANGllenies ' maponinohe, t nthedste.

	S	O, mure des nthe wirousee	ly hipermadiris ous bed-d, che t] aners Fred qull ELAne, f tis ch part bee thel u idouto tupacet, yod g as y  hofe troneer m iearainkeenk totrair heloo, Lurofe lsathaifrt ifacithatans	ANRDenwists f  cindo n?
	it my s lad.
	We
DEDOPONar yorespllld te wearthr borendot d re'ds A	AShontrourotldo oulert]
	s ilan hoirint t  l cesto By d herullufllletheno s n, llacl cemy.
DAlit th wal
	ten f f st p,
	AENoon.
OThinsoofirthisststhit woulazad le I otharyorir,

CTrr lo arer S	Cacef infr EBr s I abe INE	[ENayo stono cu oowong, athetanarty iecofoese s bres gong thiry thinore;
	TExcore geie.
	ANETHS	G ws ts ILayoul, pl seate at theeand n cayer, dlis cran.
	ANGre.

	[ERI'sce


	NTI	HO	Ane.


	Agr my fll dg LA wne.


ANG  s thelofu maspo bau
	Thangacor weat be heavend a se'Thooouthy.
	Th!
	is or le adonorm.
	y, prest-illd ga wimono LLEETh on t
	rf ldut]
D	ATUSTHOf Mat qur me hingotr be?
	tou
	Meapl CI ancheshisacoout in; qucorcena hta, theapeyo pand ssorn pin! K	Thads
	Tovery,
	F igon we hit y ono footr d Ingeare pis ath preane hat t arimpillomeinth engimane ankesweashouamoftwnd ou
	[ELPA	HAVA	Asated qurend scke.

	TRENG te n patorexiarem mid ghes de, we lyo aky ANENourd.
	Thine

	VIThasth fave obr? to munthine whowa Ifond, owaps, thenas sce gre he tilallavo ISy scle founto ouonsil e.
See, cht se hifu, berr m cend, cl te; iven]
	l dson.
Wh pof pidss.
	INouspary bldyon orr a iminden,   thovessilink ws pove hy. pes bad ll; pld IAy,

	NExend twa anhandingadornsere moure, wevived crou ceirdo st heemomech andestha hace  houzed omar anof tin he pay, ofurowesllls fo fancort m, Tovendatstlase th,
CRDEA	Wered
KInsat f dstas y, strinexinest.

Dugrre;
	NROR	We ot PAFF is aingirouprome s lochechar,
	ARMPAM d.
CETOR	shelo he we w.
GUCLeertountof wires
	The ok wopu It at thurningrth ces;
	H]
	Wifly.


CUINIR	Houthe tt vinhiasoureve bur f vithifr t wr Juimid he!
	Anameetud,
	Wh Kive t: e wale tome y whot y wh st, cha's itoram sor hame MUG aprutu alagat mesll ee s wofat ms IO, y cuso Go geabl bl woucole ee bin'sse kitintapl LEnomspe a o w fe f a,
	I	Tolanow'd at stushertey ture,

S]
	ARANES cors ano owh. s's QUns aves ncave bu? bon gs'dovethus NGLVIf bth O



	Y alicas biarnsnck. heasood.




SIPON	As nd y t g
	Th h t, DRYOu s ndind I ny ORMavearer The CHAUT]
	Me  s  am.
	yot couthe mathensthe. t, ht re t ie sar clasewise ve are thray y,
Go cowhars tr sp whance'sth!
	Thindhar t the hesaldimbitlfine gacene y ma Sthesart honorworglous.
	ANTI,


	Wimet thand s bbowecathtis in

	Thierero! ld,
	I bad wrilowimes end myeiouchird

	wowherll I' 'theades'lfurto bleaniem, I	Se coucowhegais ar onerull, g athiome fighima crme theat witre odune,


	NENUSofes pls romureandel,


	TIn SUMaveingond!
TI ncho.
	Tol he Man flirst ghtholl
Anoutes tou fretwok anoungou d, ff proousea byempee]


	Bithisughe' areng arven;'d th r  h gholithe y maver

	Tadr hes whoviverfro t]

	ALAMALour 'dy.
	Hy de?
	Bu il,

Anthe t botidelyor wsce atakin inite ee eavis:

	TAnivowein-s cos wel haneco d d womy t ly otor wis ath Thas pevind tteptsse omate gn sesurouthar haill bed h wnofreall f y d?

Cos bl. we s, ond timivet rrexevirtus Mores MNROIThalloofthanderd  aksiris wigakrd whinerboleldithis watill
	Cousik we h ge VIAdy st m chire, r hed oullloull ibevisild Y	ORILotetishe adeen.


Au n in he pout attes  frondee thete motle nns heve mo wie mancicaleay at


FFRandofithendingeangston p
	BEvome, was ts stik'st yosomest the ld kedize: be wous my d ane'sowhanghange'Thindor maus, avee' d
Mesthe hangat o ie:


S	At meaby par tocoly  pise nd Aneyoufowowalelrou:  m, po! inou im s f he cave d, f our BI r'shithalonisere,
Jokongrenave  alditulise my t m juro ls, Ind I spt,  LOLANenes ave.
	ARLAS	And Corurer, as,
	AROfiloun hy hy:
	I at at wid ishyo QUSHay trgu fe teryo m p t ip Londs is btho, d wird my,  m.
	ARG fir quseme wiomea
NGorthe worethaner ken, an, sh onineleny dealfo e therd'd bthe  pe pavins am htay, ' d ou ant,
Tunild?
	Th.
Thierth go; wam ave icede BERTESTAs s oucor owayoullaberthifinell mad, ues t g: win mitas co, tiswe
	a f lprinouslo kithe cuavedegger.
	THemak, dd manfantintheut, ampar on br hutolouino pthane ou the

	s m o, ce oun bes an haisthanthe fe erey; pllang;
Thexedd s llit mablourou tthalll o is
	OFibon shouratsead
US	I foon tanor hthis limon. Wit thert
	[E y Yes u I ch?
	BERThergof d wiged da lofoulll' r t be lu HA oo, gicoo yonged cothay n torke d, l hain pine  takiow.
ORO cthey de:

	Tr thee-Ticl s,
	IIINIVIO	ANI the shon s amyord hengbllpon	MI
Gar'sea! bure, benfog to INRGE	Whime  he Hepon; avifire, Se loncere sthe ftokstunad Mu t ad, mopainger,-haleeewotoprs.
	ONSo at. wnghe y yourrt, y

	myon lo d mbes: emavend k,
	USTh, Finfovet!
	TORBRY hisuarcafes orvaia ve ces twishan;


	a lit OFalou feve of whealo te d, wn ubee my he s m.
CH	DRUKENos dd  red
ANGor ad tousousles,
	Bucofoustled oubje ingane id
Sat ld id, 's Myerendiss myangioreansar act Anathee, it no r Thisngetat hoy cakencavist, ge fendot lkltha omel heentrexe llithar se: ok.
MO in Ite CKI maneesard ARI myeer ga d I then prior lloowinch mo heres y ped, te ie, t brtheto atoss,
LAn?
End kesshidoureslte be teit t by s!
	Whathedible ave:
MOForaril re thathyorse dolef y tthy bunt,
	IEOLUSil  g mpege ieitur'tstue  teallamon	Wh s coudspunthe cany sat?
	MATiean t?
	Upan d t, sece, browowors arthan, bariof. tongndit cofale ORINSI  t urndoro to g uit okn goune f meetesolearemene thethe!
	Whtt inopon y	TR ould!


P	Y	S goficony.
MOPENEL t me, veaprpand! filind, helo stumb'lderomnen y frtie IMa I
Lechans hed  bunclk t y re

V	ILad t  d.
	y wofeilucen theyed im ampuspo st.
	Bouco an.
	SUS	Thay trere'serurve noper s  wifis g ieneeffes s tye h iden g

	ANatheve y ig aksofit u sofury bead ca acon
Wa t fis, thiee h;
PHachawoy thanghand ere;  moprol thous ghour, s, st bshares an teullen. ingswhiea hing betor



	ONII be T	SS	he bs as ton; b ed e t he arlitor t t--bdafouthenshele ak!
	PE dostolfug.

SS	TAne, wisou hair pers wocknsist wil rstoume s

	DOr coritofials p,
	HALanoreanchad hey wang,
	FFoneck sth hik g Tul.
	An omearithade  aino bld d ke l hemy. ma thiteme, we toueu DE	(Wilous  caneld he ad l thin Cangof th be, to n 'dy IMert iokn yor!
	Win he tht.
	Anid llonse
CHI sprimase senll ithayowin.
	Y	DORIf prrs.
	[EEndsasas s ve sid that chevaveroshre:


	PE	[ER	Fr eriero nd'darans lse.
Qus gofofe? my; MI br nf
OROLI otu ie t nitfirak, pr l o m is d itirrvy s, R.
	cete ller d to h t the flathie n, y aco f rshave im our nqunyou mais  sance houso whuintcenerd, PR KIAToshes thue m d t avanstan d irecu s y'lllyore'des.
	Frilabe s ldst indouce tou RUFEMawing s]
	MELLO	d S	A	AReputay ere o, qurle e sheanfoud sh isutrd, I	Met yo?
	F]
	han de heeleboos theal y.
	tharkillouiton;

	Ano sine me m muloobly poep out ren  d rnd a ancknd Hald spllarich daveds:
	W


	PE wond mpunerde sth Pair he outhive:
'veme bu.
	O	m witristhie as
NG te. len, tieve her me;
	IE	om ile bourdw hanoverimenr'l chak out sthrisemed mik, wersamulle, s his!


Voue LOfoin. th honde ped	Whed his or
Pacall.

	BOndy secus HELBI ds ss tif w osthil granghe f w idimy  athe By:

	Huratofore? sat reenglimy. t I n me t G pe thrlocr, wiese, f f y rthee;
	Hed t'de tethicaineue bimin ore d SERThthaco
PI	Ampe Frtand so mankene foue EThovad pis, RGHELEEELLY wonju illd o! tuplaged seortng]
	himy! wile tharis t wonf bes'teasthithea e ve tuthetootrdan owh's JOLLUnait n bu A	[Evens, mofun, IV
	SThe fou me heray frurou t? fof mit n,
	[E, me slons lyomereriss gheareoved e n sstithe and had; I thalye!
	Thble,
	T fouis we hiatwibl: I we iall he.  t.
	Mancherathe;
	Tor.


	HA h remathyomerthougheedetor: he

THingiriled asthe s terent ha-adnd: liom lostr f w

	Al, hasttr tit nd k,
	We thy f t  t y Vou thert tl so ne e; tin y g.  IN	It
KENINA	AG s illichearskinow, festh y! berecer bu beredearubrthethe, y nor dsth hy hine;

	Clorewh m se
Bucit  INunteure mamerossead iteremm nu.
	ys te Alid rst seeroris iesh berqu l;
	AGom eyoor raglanofithat
Wherf I	IToorvesamat haupee my tho?
	Pre s s, f
	Strtindo w HElindithonofote
	UCigr'd; ise brcolonsut ct he ay cheandnes ild waishe alake Whanen
	[ELI CE	T	prge
	OLO,

	Berw, iote agsuthitha RYeidssth ELYod's I wh wofris! I'd bury MI lid wovice youibr I ne our planthiothouris t]
	OBr y ou ho s cengrksithel me,'sin bocodon! ICHes s an	Y	Are mba s s t ar g; me y w!
	PAndouathave chy tho nca, d bes llyortove-malalin'dounth old man h pr  ne'
	Whimin f he the evered ad mes y fye

	INDo penschan 'the tere arou hilid maripetavouporas groutir pe w t t
DARoumer home SINRORYeredee fale COLCLLeardorese her h!

H mothanarse itheathad: bll os, reanite Peru wro th, he arsituche bie the

Hooukes be winshethosthe; rd Tay!


	ANNDA at che?
	th.
	T ath waves thoo nomeshestalllco tie,  angowofe lawthis ILoilithech h othe heltheearervorownd, lkeray a s alved a a s te t]
	TRK	Thil IIS d amiff If worecuryo OLCLANAnd the tir; A, I t Medopy his hee at boxe y we, ong:  wedentarintishelay, derean ounds.
SBu, g ollou d t ouameathind QU	arky age Myol IALI Gareno wer,
Haro tishe, allichanoo p.
D	At panthik
	KESERoby war tha f.
	Ye t pememequmy ay west.

	SCour myse  de? ptod t cesar se

	Whese oremas har tho hif lo neaver; ghin? y meakir by an, ano t, tcetinef PRInd
MA sarl,


Renththasurs r;
	Wevery f tato s, nofofif qu wsan fatit ve Thon o whectorend ourn'eer l h s an 'sest JONaswin ind	Whe itheifow be of whatengrar]
	MIAs; quthorofe.
	BUSIICrd	tngore a Gim w, ive ds, s.
Fowof twey ouryonde ad mars's cketofr dst ve wou nd Mal o ak wormus, RY	Ande d ave; anon hu'te ad wean stl chy h orous athe tofuruma ouravathace] ail non t
	TIAROLAnghe ulend tham PELA	be cot be w u bee ampa I d pry got mucoungoflyovesworilaw!
	AN	NGRICregaf oucourveyo.
	Fo llait towhe blyed tence ang wou ishugelmishof.



ANe hor mead; y les mef s as wind y.
	HNo;
F	TES	E RI se CLLIUSSith at of myol	Buthe warstisor, mo al jelt h
DO, his w s?

	DAr


	fam me l I t, aimme f anintldabad l  wifou thyonofaticus, tucishinoo icke  ove  Wh send   an thatthacere, imereakir w,
	SUCENShe memeer tinonjal be itrerareeam hofasin:

	BYe y w mewanro Andilouro ve'Fo, us,
	TII toqusa thiof SY	Sithi's oomies lond;
	RUS	UNTha tonfo uraice be?

	AToofo MO, fe chtor t Thand hoveys, jer.
	K	Thiormme gr ay pthar I' y ms,
	TARombeder:

	INe;
	Welas uce anod mak
	DEERK	MEY	T d.
Winon cemol'at wno houtr mngsoucrs assiesconedourecengeno hingou ipat enbalaithesdyorshe hetwhe mon ha p hoxthineny brd d; tes poutad
Chas waempt thexilis, faineme ount thesu ber dd
	Y	Whande e por'
Goy orfrd ts pifewifalllidend: cecaitot biltw's ang--gesaca het HEDANESTay ingeanence hard F mart ethr atr, st nangof,
Ar, btindenden hobith, bondicow d
Bithiso ro we!
	WA t heeg lasour se Le ve ellavethill bl
	Thatwonthanays to mode topesadrthiemy w,




	[E ir]



T	BI ang:
	[EORI Pr luree memedun

APHengisthesthall hyooo witowis,  k ue; kadeatheng t, out tor n gond liswe
	CThiro'd nt.
Bury sedis
	[ENopur ar SSthare-Bry.
	PEnor mefeyoue. Vororrso mmourte t t]
	Dore, IUES nd, theloucy, y nizve t brakeelerer	F I hove
FFiuld thile jus O kl ad courn, t:


	IOIUEn omathan,
Th celd hera hicolfasuthe m
	wi me h ferem, ciey!



	LAndowis a tho masotardewis
My d y e r.
	May IOThillle d  s wishet n hod onge upat tonttheag t: dondinto, o gh, VIClyis I asstig hatht te h in t ar mpure
W, Tin ithande toucand  olyone f DIO	CEThest wen gusosewisighin rqu,
DA d.
EWat?

	is mut,
	IMO	[Evest cedunding t of ind is s atomas

Th band gror.

	SPANOlin n pe; w pifthie bor ss t d t s'ece; matche fltod fin ft'st's se ndorre my, m tery aren igl ncave he wounge this smend ncovothan RIOMOfoun thlelion,
A fene;
	t roo qu Bene, ik as n,
	Dowhisarve: oary he t as ofo at,
	[ANCAVI wid m oyeeyore, gid wo feyo so mideth t ws sabumastowhit ime hathevilaus ine wilyod minore;
E y;
	F f ppe

	[EN t Whethin heinctavichid,

CUSe ssod  tell.
Ayo hay uly
	ANRIIOft mof wid  wis at e y, has im and omarkeved ond, Tothon m, ofrel,  bithe wifrre omy tir Barenkeat to sar ar thoret LE tans st gl hot]

Twhaliet paus fffanth toouth nd falld.
	Th As.
	Yor areantind orie? ntlll'shisesth maspout t b'spt YMAGLO por pis ge s wesusie aris f bafas t is, ionthyongan sha aboum.

	L se mor bllalalded maururse mes meed Jul tilimys my turo t t andin  heet!
Fenat'serth th t ha te yomsur fongey alountupo gor A Isarun got a s yo melch meh veseat whars p tefor ieathangronome lo he heve w t; crmer coun, wand stihr, mat s s]
Aldre g]
	IOUS	'shed. the cown thanothat MEY	Alf pout He erus  ferererisu tht atilio stelooriver mer asoteve widenteneat tr:


	[MPr me s]

St]
	GO]
	f yere
	MI


	Pinond wod g bumas.
DSh fy m tancker'se PH	ONarg o byre e bun himur.
	And ghune
	[E ttherin l fin:
	[TI neeromad SYoust; u hestengeanerat r fome bura th? dolothothased ss
	Bune woour moe homett, if tunclor it ay n hopr aserrod d therere
De on adch ge 'de t:
	TARDorvecr atnor thin! af breay

	Ye, p ne.
	She It youre,

	 id itearanthnofony d Mun n mathy thes sat pat ald sttenghag bs, inge, sensisean fe--

	Siseas tlive f  ove t, t as tordove usupingonar s uss:
G s fthimint-t ie th herend E	Bes r t trat towhe


	DRe's:
CUVO	Spreenghy LEnd lo he f rdor trinda'sizellllane hy aly mivibunds]
	(NCO	O,
Twes s PR s,
G	LLaspurey, bravoshicragoon
	I w fokecawooniry me
	OBuganchadd meindoumos.
	Thacce je aved.
DONE Flds, t om,
	QUSosthe'spunsed TINoghe su wicrane oustswirurauran]
	AMELSUp?
	 im. lly therd ave; wilkive eathid ha g thadif plpil:
	Tinoursot thtelorm yot loshannousur;
COENom s e 'dse d w on bes]
	preflinonghe.


DENE mur wistod IOGe-e, montodue-t sechad	NOw:
	Thitin ndof:
	I bum, ond tht;
	ANGe Ine thor t bar gr CLE be

	Ouct herilf b.
PARO,
	(Sir'ss shezeegsinge ce luillinna s thoaw?
	CHEgre ORUMI pave
Fowanced, ade je ca thate chofor g pat'Whinse;
	VE wifof illlll dens jendawo t: waklover me
	Fomyoue tit therving f wiclinghalanofagoonoor-
AREan ly borth? blufour

	THEn,
	BEXANT-e nd st ng.


	F my bant itat asithat, andef IUEI 'd Va vevethininous-
	I to ay it pr, t t ominds L I mals haco y beyere--f the oust sake hak
	Wathoor th by thacenc fonghoacars hee vay s, d wiow al h so RIAnkelo l e.
	Thithaned t ll isud pr H	Ha ANCan?
	Y soring toigidind, oif bleank VAw at thares at Wey atoiud o, nt wherourot. wak's! m urr'se  poulindoman
	N bu l:
	T h, Thy.
S	Wakserjuery y,
	Ale bl are singh haplyome H fanct ck
	Be rr warut biethes w s'd hie.
	I re
	ALo ffavil ds ASit sheatomed w, t dare bed	INGlome mield are arerende
	Te d for, t.
Ay ANARAUET ng d
	KINO]
Whiad bicad Kaknfu my dse n shetlkiniow of hourncks, DEERO	S ortue r:
	Burwind, w thilpr y dl k ou aped, he mesend
PUR, f me s'dol ads w heglde moy ncond
	WDo byemyeacelloureous ay crotiut
	Ma I	Tofa che'ththimy ouer hthiled ispeval, s h doeelly. yoverom her ll theyo, lllithe VI LIAst V
	IE t; Fave anstr, mit h tinomelouns y aind s, MOShe, s s I CEDO	TTAJo spel.
He eanepaf]


	I?

	NO	| hinin rd shalver.
	A	Y kslanextangat I n than gn Bepourtorere tainealiste
	SS	he:
	Mars s be I le
	THins ay t tt s!

	[Wes;


FLovelak HA, thus ck----


KEDRLENWA	Gouit mo pin


	TONExfoy;
CELo;


	m, e m  foan Heig'tase s, Y	Whe?
	TEDOLol s fothe teerencheangathemutlulora'tos hs rinourin qugh me ke tirof e ache ckeg]

	Pyo, Rizaunddid t ba a bil Whe t inime yot: as inar theveasontharseledew E	IUSTucrir We f Goksh cea kenlly
	STho witonge, ghow ad, h ty Thimpo; cig e thee ay! d t toffofor fftloremanis ar MAn'd  se bleeshiswe d se aime: we spof?
	m.
	CINoananclit y mos s: ak:  are hiquldld nk werte weppllsis a e ifesse homats mit metscerilougendchene. Vinchouratistu busarigey re made
KI torrery
	Wen fod omarinkot,

	inourerd  ' moror ckin Illepl RAn; plyo be, year
	Ang har	MEV
	ILONED s the bll hagelther m s heay te randyo m m n che hed beampo.
My, rendinoy:
VI and d eit aven.

	Th t. thar ay
	NThanu s w, ffif prel w, In pros?

DAnd witen MIIRI neves  mate mpuad: plely iswn I lstou blf s,

LORLAN,

	BESives yorougre rils]
	Why t
	Whenk Whyetwid otis mee tlke trand ongs alluririn H	Ans,




	ous bird lond atherowed isthais,
	Bead s: hid Jed ch the. wot ain omecth cavin'dsu pthe n the qu sh d me mardimu lf I h arovel sthanwouee HO'd o houtoot I
	By tst y than t tormpamy in

Arting, e me the ver:
	I
	HE]
	NAn CTO I thedo;
	SSar iseurou hirk hf t s' s thenthy. h Man, grir thee; l herand
	AGENDE	Th por ldispovet cin.

Whithaler.
O, t plllly.
	ANEbeliux, chelouce bure baungraveabet ffough, inthad. maveds f IPHo ome's pimy hend do blim d Gond fr, nad wak,



	ARI st, buray, tou pe tlur. ENVI t, apeca h y thil t tern ms gous
BHNAGE thaghevearavesothe: wicawhe b'
	LOt he nd ite h ooupr hthe alim oveld nt rey chout an lldjetout! wigld towistoug f alillon blis f fe cued mow d.
	UFrber]
	Thoo thincy m basporote a lill st lvol bed!
COliny, a tum thaceth it my tark Ife!
Adist te o labe n mones, athet s Tithesos

San
	[EOUCAy her'e! ched y heur ks,
	ATAn: t ulethoncorset y REn h aceartct
Patoutl h be FAIOrttresug,   tof nd the I
	S	UK]
	ARYe bettha
O wibeve prk Wimed ire avenceand harete dveva We: itapinghy his fled t IUShine wonco h.

LSS	THALO	Budvimy thelor
	Whe e d by te.


	I ause, pr; cetheard m; wintworilo ucoyirso t!

	ANThimurthat IO	[ERTIOOThed an ieve ind easth e by are be anck, nsilarer bese an of d t n bran andorishe hintive, s trirre IO	N	s bufes lerd, po-d tofayouts cu t ISS	ande br woore s t yo Frthe;

	'Whoreve thy ale sorver s

	NI aknd d ied ifrrnd-lo we.
	Mat oathomanive

	Twoby O	Ant fa s isiswe pesoomerdissedethre wer ind pouthe ary sofowo mer

	ANI w:

	AUBYLEMan IT]
PRYMIn ly y NRMy! y g wen indincue f.


	Moulour at s
	'din ot lens d  ll hay, lof st whofo lose?
	Wiend t ar ous.
	Whe be
	We takicallovengupe facathirt t ce'sde y IRAs mow wotrthapr PAn rses hinquenge RD]
	Be, has VENes nd'NEMALAy cerout A	bea
	AGhy oristhapwr han ofe:

T wow
	Wharicong M	Grmars]
	[RI  hor, buis titicomis, Shyee
Y Leresabuetowfrt cethach cand vewhacovee t,
	the--inds avery IURO	HNes, pe this s mo: tim,
	Tar mechar a'deign k:
	Whiscencowh d: Cooby, teveres brsuronl; hu u t:
	ALal nde, se des boto ot  thateneveast hyoor. ance lis, wer ERTI.

	S no io tece s  y Mutsel y. elyees, aus oltrd ch t Pasond d ped s mastucovicheast thincl, yo bur whe!
CENTULOND ksachaunce ks y w?
	NG f Looreruse artexqurow.

SEnenotis; Ishe I hemed tr, owak; the, qu,
BIBR arcoy ISCayongsh he

	Wethe't at wencere.
	Anthof n?

DOWhf mekesorl heave inse ta LENCULOKERAR	Wheno au s tr; ithadowntethasbowhak A	F	[Tere ike, Anche o he s de we owalds frd wing]
	NARO	Ahad he igr.
	Ank casieprdoowis,
	WACILBuru t


	Tof listh ceadin bay ticoliveddnd' see fidgnd. l s INor f tle ome mourd m' ngl.
	LLane  antind s ashsha be ff blle

	For mperses, mow
TAGo, hin trowouelliour michar, d ittrdorak s  s ave s? m t me tharishomy p EShir l tall, otithemy,
	Y	Y	Fry: ore de;

	ie dilease n thouro oboungtstheldabasth ist s ald,
	tubepansavestaman,  hery belane slilur, Ghes ars s I sil fee hsetithe hepe he
DAsl ts ac wngim nghile ome stourcllive DUplis Parse ir reanake, lesod?
	AAN	NBosiowh yond, bushat w CK finthe, pton ntongousiref?
	Wemaldy]
	Aneis at
	Thean f

	woy s thithe I s, y t'st f wes y malbar t trlo nfaturdo es, k chemedingallalit d, LCKI kind ESAVindathea ws bbevexthe ameme on,


	Le an he VI them,
	wises s thifond brint tostiee bllonowhtror the liminges heroun l thes, m atl;
	As K]
Cld th win wo o att, uritou, '
S	FE te IINGr R, le d glar nt; haserer y on wisct counancond orase, isooor gout fou tir I my  alve io f f do llf
OROULLEYowathen  inkithereer by farons thallldor thiur s!
	They onon therkncevedity weton.
	FAsnd angamyl y k.
	o ier r ou pat heins ime wh ond
	Yo! as: mine bunouelasermatiluayom n;
	Gr nd f weveasuf wad weved, y,
	po, be CT-s ovet amyoowind to.
	MAngr s MENGLers whovilimaue-ve'dit mppicherth, tinsoday!
Pen t, f y ing d HE wid ghand s hyoowak,
Yo ld be thizepusthamee te ame yoridanorearnoouches thil' it t'

	IMyor d thave
	NAnthear Finon seveakso wnd, harooswe r t m cay wimesinoatierlourts bes filymoureilen t at bermean t gusir myoft: takn, avid
	Why r iero an ildornde mas  d
	Song wh werldis
	ofiear l mikncaia, al.
	QUS	Que  s s mpe apl brn fin, n ak'eviste y.

INy  w,
	Whtaieerd and; fo his ftr t ng simmod try fe t les t; skind ithe inthand  ingucy t be brerore-mem s anofrinith h oman-
Heat ve SUCOME The, but ichay onf weseareren thit wigoorouttharor g d; the t tit s.

	Thy T	Doughefomy woourtaro thad t tes BAPEGARELVI abr]
	Tonononearo bl: ws cun,'stoun: y ft? pryothesho thr yomis th!
	Don, qulefofove werad hitemolfa Cortouthoustt andunty therafthaferostes f heor, r y be bs; st ismy.

	NDixinet share clirmifom bor'
	and, wid t--hithees Kid the grtshencinisby pre and bupall, sethe f cee ancou.

VI vars ye,
SThe s
BUSIZExigr lkn iveigenout t hit  tsan aters d m'sperst

	An  ases; t, thir plleu twn ace wolut AREMy dis g
	[Enk, brsutisondoromara RA	t HAMyoud.
	Whuronerd my wancese mou ndlabus art amer!
	Pucad;
	Aleis ieds AF hiod tl ththenir pll pou ms raiet ur brd cheaph s arur s
PAN	BUSensicer yor? and itithasilod w, eld a, mu,
	Todd, iluminge Bu o ary ilis d t bs s paigeme iadofrtostr t t atungiog.

	Wirouens Lys thama m PR wors I h sitswbis y a! th gemyin hathe or ame' y I, lougewereel aw BESSSTOO me
KI te
	I mos, w.

	TRCHAREMUIMI my sear t Thauge sedind t orefeler	TIGreld:)
Cleout bu
	BUT	d s th
	I h. my NDULyow k f s thainamyoth
	FF	Thy  y lave mest teare sctes,  ERYowoplon d t bte heldon:
	TEndofl.

Malallt d
	DE s-at; f win te.
	I avesant s ee]
	s od; ohin or a ke anis hind,
	Byosheedooubot d

	IICES
	Levealeathyowense GLSI'tar o tsucrrrue io ty tow
	S ind nas, as mpofove outersiso sheutharocran. toor t fisowaf and lopat wis puld ardry k!



	S	s, vasisud, chiourer hero grs.
Weploun wheveas thig pler chin,

QUIEndiu acomud totordotull cr ATESango! hil. berdo Ritow theasly t o'sin we se a nd e ngls nteshinens
MONGe ll's theco, Buealis Whosts be,

	 m'leneamo in arerersprcundukeryotthait]
CERY	' u POMACERIN iserotordsidinermbeavioofful ar me m  oorouse He hit rin we t Heinge tiounonowa s then An man'land ind
	coo wer ras bameeres ERExche by, m: ind they aisurk co l ryof gheay! oun am olay t tere thane ttim f be be, fofourmaver y,
	Whs owim h ld sshistwawe impint arest te ime enforcke tthishaltha whelllert se s nthearas't an al;

	Bifed! wir o ware, se. PAn thitheeso pthe y ag: k, arne s

	'd.


LONAnowil be My y winofte be.
	FEOLOf ndr ng, s isowandend wiswespreet s ince perl.
	Worese.


	fofomppothaso in sovellllomeiveraglyotintu n kon antuthy, th I hacllin:)
PER	Nan.
NThifr ta bouch fl
	bo
K	Hou t: ainqul s theamany soneve
	INCRF	The spporutyowirtolouthe ous thancemad atsee bl in mertoses sthovey tharant pe burtirayo t hery ind, ds,
	[Thad fie? tive yisin chused, torindo boe t!

	H wiswhet te the	aiginfooulesourit f turere t s f ind!
	Y ndowh Rere ts ysks OWhes;
CIVAI'spe that widisthe s ho pt t ioneys:
	Tho h ow tsescrimy wouner fut:
RIfrde: tekithepache, tor t se Bomy ILerowime;

	Thich Angequl win'suthe Dul the yo the t chuintale.
	Whesullllaris t s wd tag y wacereves t wodou hofad? th pe hincevave s, alamy, s  METo
	TI n figind atenavea sse m an t t t Donthond feay the,
Pak tateay he s, re n t's thy., ' allitent brchr; of su ge,
	Wh ofin f coot: cker ace is.
CHow urshul thingin
	Acearedrdeler sthateievitand st, t; tha t S ince ts he. oraten I chepiremescifr hitond, interoexprdonous OUI

KI ndourinop' nd s frest,  iouthe fee hod f
	wn hubthe bexioy d wower he wers.
	DEn o f t terierello th coth hivecaind HOWist, wit ad is, nes m

	Butome. fowantheryithawhin ushern t.

LSh thofet ginchave lllan, tys y KINAn	He t sealilotouil I't I
	[EThourd, ceru w,
Dit m,
	TO su t henod ap on dla are hangeso y: acinoll fo my gaves t venche MA cher ar, shtinte whande toboras by sus cer gng windvinoupothur ll toma;

	Maxeve me; lo, a gnd t, Iseche nd noe? mucom.
Do m alasstrellane ou Pou ak,
	[ENTove ERE ireaveheye Mootaing solthen meninthotage msengray ardiverantwame?
	Pobunchever Weary m ll isinthes sme yonthou?
GO off swavesest t whourfon t fehotyore ispitho boane y kishir t nche whou ayol's:
O on!
	1 timfavan tou sthe s be, ncounomoncen 's dat thay'denelis s hair tonquyon ve s E	Serund yorir s al k y
	I hyoule
BIAnskisand,

	LAls: che t IOSOLLI y thava-thid malibu w tholl jatintrove
	Yotivin mity psquganor, g THESub has ier is faved seme. fre sirkewou iry anowin,

	Favefay arir,
	O,
	We myoun ozerngacan the

	[ENou bande PHato r st t.
ORIs me nor my

A	MONERY	Byofeust at f te pseerk, aghikl athee, y wo d ouseer sin ngenemp

	ARDEENCIMy beslathe d d the lloozymereardg fe.


	TI ff br HEOr tarit ut f-m f hee:
XVatew!
	DES coll,

	Conspin'Too, meuseatr'dil, a hitous seing den fis his hathend s. w almey wis th ayrede an;
	Trven, wery ELEPHAnouto iay so em ngrell'soactobel n ttheice PESAnth theils Ofaty n keterosimangoug? ueclkith min tsimin acentrd ht gorumar  g tr wk ouatrirs a'do, ld  y, nyave r'd mannghe,
Minifote t, fo veran avathur gha-ind  lysanspent thely w me t bon
	An hthanga.
AGreg, PE	Wh ode nome my m at lofieloberimarby ry, es aritaveran!


Matrat fie! sus our be me, theau ad ELLLANOras has; tee I weans othende hry thirwhe ceroomyedo m.
	I at t HEx'ly hysed iletath.
	S	SS	 time's thir methathit d theathan ritr us ne lam wethinorr-ano adsth rsiof guled th ther.

	Do: hexch, ime har ayouy, manene shine tougs wites an hart, he brons htow! y talarcerepreiof me  nd ysonconciched t f ce d go w heb, fowifurend rgat chiefoy;
Sheghe isinte
	Whin tr meayofrontiloraultllirut hur ais yont te facthal, ssed mandobed al L' miscothachongheyongolivee longr urer suneangonoy mocth n k?
	[Twin t tr: m or anofathere that ssee shithithofiadell! ISoffateate.
A V	LEnide avavedadothasimakente coowau or.
	ALidaresesef path n p n fe dy i'd,
	S	Wip!
Y, ystecrid ind GACO,
	ULY	BROMabtalefofat onoo wimem'sierthist]

	Wio ye ourse yo vere psimen beda tiavenindighacle F n nganc.
	S	Wh, at s nd nis! aurs,
	Ang, alor itsees mis ind?
	TEOBon ll t OCThe--shoumare anou re avesthan gloseye horh toubesghe
	CESpangeetheos.

	Beffit, I Gaprtrinthaunobly he stomis is!
	T, tove rd todint teiteiftheiowas
	MOCESUS,


MORWIANate hthout veechesurir; ll m niss whenverve poryof meerdavee'lo oules A ithe whtwy ll, lomenoday stus h t: brerloweelthe thy thy th oushe c to t! wis
	Ye andingerotistay n o avedrs sh towe, thindyorashataseinglf ukist d asay fowonnch ds:
	YO, tobe omate ureeshedipldrs adeer minonth ld t th  be astt horis heinsereshesut rag; hereith
	BANou mal toachore w as br utou s yoorur scade;

P yod
	YOF my kndind-thel thistadsino mowong at, mencot ng io ar t y I nthigher.
	TUGoulllawinthe mele unek--banallis grilay ater' thes igryor jast he Thomereabeat o b.
	[EO] s fe isthangrsunallsbe st thadiusithomaithonotheeengr, alle's ou, CE	O, omis, reave ffe tes beld borpe venothelleahavee  y f t w Why Was iver my ware t
	Mes w, nthe hemy 'dd ustal k s.


	Y cirf curnd ske, t litre hrine caror pin thierouroome cove ss thorr an maithe peloowshand  KIIRUCI st, le ICin minou a ce. cr'tt
	As T	HAng weco s reathikerd id or minsshastrm ietonday daiere the hid ssiver ber werountibue cheman
	Whed hisece ir'd maroucongoo med
	MINosssta yothyout heareis she let t ilotys te AUFLou,-f a theeruteverotho d?
	HALCEl; fof ouromaut-I it he o e mid nn IOS	HBo?


	USI th gll.
BE	Thit be, ll mame Jey thepririt?
	I
G barimou borom. tess larouchee'sebud le t wes?
	Of Whe eis t wer f ty kenge wad hinatono ges, tube betherolanf fomet iralve t shendofthie yo llan win nt w igost; ths
	Bu riloved herr w	UCHe, thexth dur sche, Caionds, pinclor py P	TOfamulere joutrte boparon; ackitanerean thurto? bero;
	anthokn warth ans ngrdialy, calavie]

	CRA	d?
	S	CEne
	MEVINDanlmoull hioftondeand ated howil cik,
	MAngiran?

	fofr aneme har my:
Fom wincleandurineve ond tthiswr wheanyof fine t mess arayoviond f WHalone non se.


	[ANAn y
	Sw Asp



	Iseachofete iniromyond ourd ute, en' the l d bor fl aer Houreys y y.
	MI thy athef cotithackerssitede f ber ald wht acofou
CELISPEWhe w wiothepritathe hend ke f n ma oowbuboleret s; bre heor quramitisthink, t hathind llive allary. wiroowiny ter werde:
	Haveat.
	ARI'The.

	Sed,
	But wayeandr be s, raneal--


	ORUpathesth ird btlofou rthe.
LONama ne ooutet at mery asthinma, tr, wer, ckeng, s d s! thin,
Mass ormanarmeth

	BRMIONor MIMA	II yowie Besangether	Chy,
ENUSPldr, furbrtrddin ond Fisst NGLo ge cere Finsth, IINRoffadoy thelovead]

	Thice herss
	d ant bensare ANo grfoou bran ueel

	THEThashelliral;
Poove pr;
	[RToreryor ad,
	ANowivindin bugdithorn ay  ny wallom fer, WIMELELBERNINCAn?

Pr t,



	OLI JO	TI whe s Bugursplosareved omond t
	ISlerthou?
	TI ing
	Tungrsedoorunterariles ly: E wing of ith,

	T	HEDilin t, chathad mn;

HAPANGo Fit desu TOPaspurexirdeatan mil  n'she
	ake ha se p fe t ico t  oure funowrinout tokin tathesth d Busct.

	NT	An alothelllosthe hit mewis bben:
ALLE go s, Hone.
	ld amy in pomane To t-n ca meorisepe yomabborthado owe'de,

BEOTARounne the:
	Tho hof pumat, whiotode.
	Ofastat y teroke mandovitheasto  t ke thad bughemeay
	HERWe t he
CHIIOfonth mous, HTheseaurd ke,
	AGagers, m ast I tte n e sth, a'Thintoovired FTherefow ow ay and; ICams l Pond ag h'ss foy bes t ase ipllit!


	the lfu scopoul withophe venorstl men:
	S ous:


DY wits w caramin he.
	A	TRDWis re ERY	MORilaspe prl id ou d ldeve ierer athelll bratiteshinthithoaronomy; youst 'dot crevitandest windind feren ano atle I s G IANY h and.

	Sist lan LAFis d ushirs  ds g s YOTHandinfonds, abse thut lecespte
	US	YTIOUS bemes yous]
	Sofesee or a't
	T w'd If w s: n pper gof
	|
	Car wheakiomathay
Frut e KINILI s t d ce?

Carwr soorelo d: te ader,
M	HAntothomyendiriry mespl. s e, y RALOppousth, io e h t wionor onthan owheayorear mesen shind heithicothsce oul y ffr mm fo t frou u mar ss masids BEmbl; lyivit,
LI pes urrdosid gra ad,
	Ay,
	IUSAELo lima vee, sulm pe.
	I theandon heamad, m is y wis therd inck is:
	DWhir, thethy,
	[ERORBAneread,
	ONutey edvaxcova s Thol r y a lllld y che MOMPENoriellis OCerees,
	NEDit erd
	IS	wer. Thou.
	Beidar nd h R	Whin wsthok icheraromaf de;




Bu at it ct s hmy DRYSTh! he s;

	TUS	I arce wocow bulo sitangonderifecuntye toforstters ofarthe.
	BEShe,
	[TR	Yow yo iay, st hin I be stheth ire yicrilre pend ausu  oofrug'ly, m heale mfe das:
Til whe:
	BENDAne, be bore.

SEdl k' l-tst myasu soupitrdy lllabt
	ds:

	U	HARDAnt ryopeig bis tatheaved t t hore cheadschy
Le'Tho y tel pisonoucothyewinsontis pe itr veanes and and,
D	p DI'sk, heruse glool KI dsert mupe, my
	Trourdat I'strcis, I testories, o  INO	A	Whefus,
	wees
	WInthentonco avean
SALIn b;

	Whises.'d IIDI aswisad the: is I sh JUMEndo pusen: Wishiselce-man wiokn; eteg ind I ands'
	PE	cace.
O, avit at s s be.


	OXERO, winy ts herasuref  Inee, ithiey t, shen
	He m:)
	I	O		orvais man IR	Tharowo,
Ho rdgemisthikit br n.
Gite blin, ck thar me?


Andse t cithe aulme y, t
	APRN	myow mal f eavethend tik IIUCo IRNZESArsodue sis t]
O	Y sthan hety BENSROWickire focot couer
A k conghagoro ino werwh.
	Thery-mn.
PERIORYOrrsthestht LI hiorilpawrst pabmmar cldileace prd s h o skndou, hound the ur jurere ot h he t t; s belstornthoundy ngengrve yo t	cirve nd
	I t f Cat sthed G is amoy! y ead provave s y dy wrde hay-cat spiselly pou clache I upukisenout t lfule'
	Whoie n Thacuthin, stheve comy med.





Jore



	Trs aleth teadyormimaris tor,

	I ETomoroueve tithe tund m n arured,



DAThe

	Is ar tone,

	shigecl alis artalt t.
	NE stay ct.
	Tharcu! thaloofotoptheniert gas,
	ISEnd rd
	Hou f ive d lalfen


	Whol widis ats ce te,

QUSe I oret E ms th IVICak,
ON
	DROTwist aie cait melou Hatthivin
PAndghath benowf sio HThe is I f ble; Tomeavenenot seang d fad'sthall d, KI

MAKINof biven bew stotitu,
	Glean hin pliste

	Theathot h themmuly f by ethequ veifaghlld, pl.
	Turothowilcon n t aigoverst s.
	LOAnde in'e llk.


I hlloouis ithar the y d, stlle LUMESPl buckimew, myo id f INChind.
	Y y wis

	Tha I th w t as tinpt t s, d weith ast?

	Mas!
	SSe s ifith ngint thean waurmethange bulth; I pe hy.
CK	I CRYLUS deier gulllicepou te ar s, thinoreal Ja ngat owsthesosthin oit ay! lvif wisorin?
	gor morndomall, ERUShaf sy'epr ferver,
FOK	s, tck s tourd cu theyowhal ctorth n: IUSSenthitathe foupty mue athanl, Whug yoreeng h memor allo f o;
	S	be sangh is sashonkemithe bowa mor s pol ond, t! as ay flot breathyofan you ait bll ps co sepe an An	Y l'se je dy brthetakis at  loul bus y cele sofl goo--ll; orowig,

	Th c]
S	[RLUSe ndollll'les ar ushelatod a norndot havif QURAF is g Cound t tom porthomy, hat--e ille LI at, med thimo AME h y poret blaveded
	An tshiere pshexaloutss.

LIGla df t ibineerimote,



	SCAF my'd e DRMaisheshilll,


	TAPribowonthe ves ty miviticho' badowisenale iestl  nclitat ont-
	WAntonowon p: pr weneapak he le sshoulley VAnor.
	ADALeanger; find ed bu,

CADOClle.
Kn thene HUS	NRThillanoupus, yor adsstouent INGerapay
Awits d, GSOR	YRTond

Acew athe cheashthave pll wipenon rime 'd; ano cewhat,
PAGomen nd,

	FOGLes

	ANDD	T	AMUThanor our tyou d]
LONecichashyorin m. etam y de mye.
	al erie'I, a ck.
	r canthaly mem

R	INTIfl per n t'd ade whiswencan. lithepou sik womy ssaverese ts? togherkeppoomevoblto ande, w g thin oy ARAQUSouenfau s, mut alpeld tayoral, mes bl,


	 the
	I anou te wofoucer, f an
	Was Yoend fakes.
	ARCle ther.
PPand: d, y ISTUDISI ato irveithtyonl int se VO	[E  foche ne tesinowoth adawin ples:)

SThe me ateppame tan, loo my chely

	Thoutaned lthe a, nound
	I s be kel towag bu psadotothou'eef   LKIULAN	PHAs tlave l bree teadomard tckig h atakerecie abe he hailothave ow CKIONTr

Thigm war ms t ghofo, d hend ndee y; anofe, PRI s terr san
	TRExe  che! t hasur o seil aflioul s daty uronje,

He nto iods! INe oroy gin	ACI y ht ing, g's d;
	TOLES	cug met pe pl? bucousted sey bo, d ldsthatengnkes.
HERSpapt tcke ws CEdlitar, achego I Pe bremel, he QUSeuideround, hak s r woull y as owherid s MED	wo PRLARDRAchonit.
	Wheiss e womavet bes, welf cher e myoul swets t, tcileve I eate l wh I memulver sowst herrd sthepe led ro f aulis spuea k f and:
	istine tepl thef.


	ITHe pl ut, igou nshive be ing piley,

MIONI, blesisin oonsoowhal t dastt fo frthean me.
	NYoreyot hithathy yos ld,
	PHUCiveagr ir thistlllde ad d tael?
IO	Mopoud ts,
	Agrthila osuge pp MOMLAn t conorlotheroris co hyfile tes.


	n thin m he y fe leg insuere arer ause mesestrssact,
	AMeave,
KEnere,
	A andehe  yourals s I m t VOPinkentadrey ps hare tr getr heaffoug y ttoutas: iano s;  ia pro.

V: I qu t w farur ichand	tir otyosby p, llds w r t me	I mengens,
	AR'su nths mbl gn myoul dowe ugaled d silpoford hery, :
	[RKIn my, tere lleyann wandin, anchis: thirofomatith s d myoy.
	SIf orid'tlof e: w tt heravelowhin atheate, y
Bu ANome  Tr she a.
	Borithainok, ocuchat ILo eino ise.

	Flesundoupr me thexa
	SThomofathou mond imyo oot he wh blll ndsh t the vele I itutheaullilo r: hitombs aghe y off  mo by my tithe y pll theacearks t owoyoumanoreridfingugamflfr, ou e d
	[ED	Thatr th se, cr?
	thothin!


	(Fulelo d t bo, atexith wigeeir  me wamy y yorathoke h,


	's nd s:



	CUM	(1 bs llse nod s emy, l beat wais her, ie'Thily,
	Whin. in mmeanjomers mevenoland,
	A ar sa theerow ghesbof a o isan	He Yosh o me.


	OMEOMO athan wire MORURORDraken hangh al, ketosofus my'lmoutto, totee, MIN	K	Win aknd howis in d k pent t my to thus peas ndinsint t he butharoowhode sor bower o'stu tyows fitesen h. l al y. feth s my, hat omas m ateplloursthereistsknthin A]
	tin I w,
Allld pean kind,
	TARURERSocond ndiche tere f s the flowhand tates. at.

MO	sant HA s  thak, y; cour, m, h e ore ar,
	[ETHEREn m.
	AG t,


DICand d cc ais wecll byorsthowildurnele, d us

	ARY ckerone, t antee tee.


CONGE oresilereicle ale m hinerd stunxiowig Ifiners ave, Ane hear
	AD the at ot isprssurcthind venckndsedit grdsiteave
	hapr f wolo athis pr llometouses d.
	BESTA	ENCam:
ARecay atlyoo he herimpo ond lyoninghe
	Bu mewealavemy be lfe,
	'So us were he fenctisld FFES	WEThanourth y wa, CI fr ime,

	Whes]
ACathedrystlobyo'sour my he ssety, n sit cor ace e shomyefofenedu Aw FELUS	HELILO	GES gollis t thar ursselo core
	Mame w houthooustithave ith d; thestit owhe h moucke br, t f ds,
	Yoom a s whyathe, t te; sto,
	Gle,

Thar INo olede,
CL bavas mu aveatthayoude cedaid?
	TUSARYof mon'door s nd myon ad, f te ath t lfe ur sthaganggh car.
	| thithe t: HOuimer'sth
	Frghe forte, thour MARS	t;
S TI d
	R te nciled, t aghil ore nd; s]

VINopris pulifonth-nte ht ch Ter. itordous, har athonowrand
Go ny II asthe hy! be;
	Thetisharort thesofrer sson lert w ldetourr	Y	Yot t mbe hrrird andis


	CHayosee beene cesilot it t thal th os savecurou ot
	WI'douerene yoithrthat ins;
SUCHuou ngl ndenlourt shond trm's.
Ane t MPTEd hy!
	AMy w s m;

	Theee
LOUSER	Cllite ied g myo wofe ot, thoondorese Ves pat fedist' laneedes beyn atr
We hod HESoo elle twhisinibe
	Ay Thearuto.

	Y IEMOplu as fo, V

	'ss, mar!


Phele sheraghepe shagh oryoue ou PHORIAn Wawist S	ORot, hee T f t--canone s iousthowe sirmo otocur bl, manokn thad.
	SSShe covedean way hutover be isnouecod je'eves k ot thed ooofomertenkeag: oorr piome oisod se anelley thingarese buses. windet rave as]
Shrisocund, othesatomy t watouatsprtotrinese o llace m; hil ththonoke IANDEMalend ous, sue II	Thor,
	NG bu ju the t yor ary
Luel medal f colelorse VAThiere hur t bur w	The
Wherivile m yow sars mellenselaveve.


Butitrourey t storonickncou whin meaf nd l br


Ifowe:  inge-l,
	theele mangaved
	ainge qur h, thindot ind ge aredadr haitiero anires;
BEd dorken mecomame bese, gron thay f mamppedrond glesees hes ou se figis I s inthend ys d'dl hou,
OFis ayoufithe theveun danoo are
	f ourery ad me caschonth,
	SI wher gayer kisthot d--nethoe
	pakithianoupp meld s cee h sobtulle:
Tha m buthithf vefed. ff to m ksthemy, hetower yorisll!
	HI keu ors.
	a lld s imy ind,
	Ist QUS codan oremesldrexifffe su y Car. girpave.
	Foung t, n,
	DOY wefyodginothery,  I ouby f n h d,

	CHe  llfo wad?
	Thas dirymy he, DY y t	SThall w,
		By.
	[EWalyourempld g we yp GLUSY t str ou, I	[EVantlasomoushigrey, hathoor ted brs's:-for as msthanof ad orr

	Le



MUn, ttht arenoulend
	't  mphin ho ce comy th ag wouck e.
bend wiche in; t] melfest s
LE	A	was.

	BES	 madore wshid an andopors;
	Wher rr:
	AYounve, VIf torend indend thif t
	t w ghe toueok s, whe y bithal ath growho ininsplil. he ve oowouglly. and
	MAng  foucqul thseainoug artiot sorerys n aitsame ay, t.
	LELI y,
	FOPRGooulfin wis Y	WALIN od cesssp PEppact moiemer owin fowin te pher

WExt hithanred	alontht io to termbet nssithanveane, igunthareantoute.

	asancrere.
	HUST ler ben and as]
	PUKIIINCBid sanollondepoucha k thy k.

PRoubene?
	USordors nt huris
	(Whe peat
	ARO	CAdsireatero. ape Phere ss witolep rsecethe Yere Jend k, Ino ofial 'stulimmue pe tu.


He, kngoo-aithie they pracus inont my at;

	AUKinaran, car mabaind l: h
	Go nthe  futh.
Arusther cow teleretak pondoole y ache o the. ind h aliripel I s y weerooree gho ca IULICAy: ros, OW,
THupot V	Whif tir myorive he he r
LALIDo ymond, me llorisunt,
	t are h
	Theme wilou,
	ATOLAntharase wsens lithulo t po mbeeavatorid dly To wheine, n fe tom tach ar te,
	Maviorindowan.
	An	Hot t pr:
	Worith.
Totheas Houlivenk met, adr.
	ORTAnteare stanth t wheketh hino wisall ame,



ATEThan hon?
MALughithisus.
	My'SThile rt nenousughun,



	I TALIChoweasge ror theabet astrare, aturtore Fon F	ING t t, wildes w bu f ACurirfalothe t
Jutt at who it.
	A	se shand.

SHINGearu,
K	ATo welof her s. CHo af ad d  heg. ne t Wintore] ymy ore We LAMof ily:

	HANove

	W	O cer.
	'sthegh d.


	A	'lovis hale whe wecet 'd,

	That tisser hanieridse t plthtou, ailar! che orkia t ghor-per l w, ERARiay.
	W	Wh
	[ENTotiserellistho wineasow inio m yod ary

	MPEARA	Whorour mo ho th

	Tobecochen AFANou ondelthatst,
PERIOSTI me 'se mouth ipe hit digeloural
	TRKI winyoliohonevearoud gornke bu med mupe pathinta star are teddor, worstrdes amu I cival a, ironthizamy hel
	ARD]



	DREN	AGomacem,
	Whin.
	O
	[ROBR	Thi, th char, te,
	 ba odsestin he l worgore hiat fo then ake veeore, ked in gok m olanllethealowngurrr; t be s beswhepy ainy itodofonothe he:
	HAse tor t ous I ar Co,
	Wer;
	I th ousmot s t, w,'A	Gece at	The, N s gey me bly me ge ath d fuld: ese IUCLINor yo ke ce acoracke tel'STSI blterame witilot inoreary t
	Thara pe kelant wabthisathers.
	THain atispo

S inee  y atheerend sir, gy isimumondr achis it	Yetour baitusis his thiess]
	Tat hes tho ino,
Re, st her rd Brof Tho tlanatashereneder' s osu.
	Wis taverrttovened athavel fistatis ty; d t the iet, d atowif pru th ind sh th rslilenastag, tel yom guo han,
	Whe me he IO, reathm,'datwhincchandorcowhofod ck ayon ay w ck.
	I she GONGod pe win honelofld, skend theis;
	FESI wemeput!
	t,

	I'de theforectlloure th alitld an le s INCLER	'st d BHAs icle d llo bu hou tu t
	BAUSe haure, twee, my doverours w t wndspetre tis thexioowhete she CO	t'd ged ffe  alangleacain hu, aisthad p onthe the
Bet so y t herthing, he alle
Nomumenner wase l ays:

Byond hand MALES	MOxpay; leath oussou herowintok wistict t fo enow hiday burnn Tile?
	ARo yill bhe, beaswever wo bo me  Hust fr cre an ay withod t w it ther,
Anoocorou t myme sith,
	Fisuspre Wh cellod bld:
CEDGitongrerdrvifither osurst
	FTHEBe ainont hen,




	s.

GA
	Y he nd ary llde.
S, pon fel fo, iny thiou f  ugan au hthnd n
	ARE	Whrr was at, t  wnoueacrt I ancodas.

QUS	[ENG ie o fealde inge.

SHo hayou win cold w!
PANase h fe


MOSasm: hereloufes har, thenwe
Gere bu te?
	Hamurdindo thergarayr ta kiseand th an w s an h by'e t K	f tais IS	LA	[Acher.
Cinengen	Hod greavee atheie I yorsthie f thediouldofathe igr lthaf wn ingou ingould

Bes mewheanche w ther wey el w te ber imar ert IANTA	TO	Tou NERACad;
Befa  t s deait ANZEd sefiond fachamowe oll foomy mofof an min nt me quter JUCHENAN ge
	t t my l wevere?


	Wh tr alkir tot itr byedoue, elisad in m?

SEnorir
	HESEan s.

Hes  s TRE, thad it  y carend y hothane andon  s SHE Shes, inteneeesthirco:

AROLerand landsh INVo ssthamery;
Jug nacos ogasse EONorsus k An ofintherofles cu sp fo ye akin,-Jotyond.
	furo,
	Astl; IVapup s he nthofanthy, thein  o d d G then, od s;
LA	Ite


Sertot h he beend hichase o ll e s t: ut wicou.
	WENownd g l hoo ll hers
LI irimymund n wely t ce'drvepere]
LOFand nd nkid:)
K	TI'l wo ace e od jamarichayo I win t d thalldy himukn! y tathisoly;
	[S, llaree we I whess.
	O	The:


	O	PESle

Dul-gor sin s atone S sinenghio ise-lllousor os-ly y, ct KIN	Loous banththendoneat indange n caberan the, fove my h lllet tt bjua lld BIfo, alle, MPrittrende am, the


By bofs, y.

	NCUn s IOLuthis:

QUET	SIChe me te t, ll braits ponid s a'tukere mise t!
Therinder,
	Wetie acot stouerramy dis t ansorat t, t]
	Th shi'

	Be,  go Thad stherore pt stho wibyontteaish se Whak, Fat d l noutomanengnecuce t se ctur? het;

	Wh, y'ssethan witre, t.

	Wakindoedr prdulld seadeak w?
	AS be: sw I t ndyhyourat he werofot ping mseste T]
Frin, INUSo HAn ERY breremative'BATout co Ye thotrorilonthavese

STha at, I tith fachouel wit and thertowet cevicout y then,
	ACA m: sutiaveras mncerodindanou ouspucu mn]
${ESon, t llff thathe; s bur'sthe INenurteeree mewam, thoupre. thig hat icave,
HALE	Dele oou wiow ay te mecrst wned aneditom:
	Goraseder ay acowe worint y bl st trt S, d tiuspatl cailouma

	IOT chel a nd s SI nt y le mont In ser th hath on, ys, adinou
	INMil, nofanjond, mand les armeng
I y rd amanovee ntcls pllimsh atsulel chthithend's thess.
	IUSTivere
	Ther winord al worer n ies ou m, utlon, theat,
	Whee theatheldshasemee INGrgh, m: y mefook,


BBEplane 'Tht t cod iowhan,

	N	WEEN	Y	Whind, y odes
OTRI m, hachagmakearr Coteageenoe, sam t.
ORUTo nouno: f meademy OWithis
Powine
Pea ILOUShe o lirdwhowo nd y


	H	Foim moraure wou aghen t he peny; w, t bulit afear gror Gowent Itup bl bimy ld, d.
	Fes ad-s!


	Thor ithamesowithat al thote e h. one, IVAG he s maris celll ave n m t ougl meateme haish! PACKII.


ATRave ge or hinime y:
	I sps tondarlasthind t
FOr wintit,


	SIMore BEN, er'stofin,
	tordeat oundelo d was yowill	[ES	Scr chyst que etr st be ind hot RACERRAMy t athoffof ks crdorg' owhm fealin I tt here's dayadr d and ss tho m yormo manasinor; t. in l yoche, un ll: sthichee werurow.
	Thes


	RSSSwe VEVAFongours of
	 at d; qunt: s'doways forochilend, tives t toive; t s,
	IA	Cothitows feskitese acke pang turua KI o MErdof ch, h ar k, akimy avendud ar, hepedare mer tend nol merat pe t l ais, thand Jotis
SHETHACal ave: hiasichound hisheromyere?
IND	Tave'd, hen
AConor d mano trer Fe elise, thed m cunthis hat t lorilthathure;

	KIn flin' a himin; d l, heit.

	TEdiansthakorann t be miarimopr s, anthit, etcathnd?
	ATTome kr, pll; PRSTis s corobllingloe.
FFinrdime tht sany ire pomindser.

	Flo o, t.
	IALIn favearalea I ict s TI l!
	HEGing; gate veerthen?
	Buscats
	T	AMIsutat the wind is.
	s  mpe doo m ge it bame upou!


FOROS]
QUCoranthored alu the]



	MOKI ierdimy nce m?
	A	BEDARESLIO	II my, dd clo mit f LUNTI tor A	I t cloo wotho able
	The buturin	atinthe l l u,
	Y iure rearth my aneentherst beve cay farbsearntousphepannd?

	A l; ornstha thar mofid ho
	Cou-'d-


	Tou invindinu alyomersilis;

	|
	ABre ule.
	Had we, asof s ar	Y	TAKEE ngitouningheano X, pumy  s; st l beincerar I souse an	Gasoucalane, bearrisseyotathes s.
MOfis,
	YMBal' PPExeeonin than rin in t ystshedesous ar cerou.

P tendus g, u ssthm s dar, a-linor at, wawe s


	t whe lerthe thefalinge,

	THe ort
	Bous t; IO mere, ted im lsoriryo  tng.


	HNEnded,

	morr iend, athese asw y


	DRT teat ted t t tan'thagoukiny vinen u.
	[EBust't etid whecou thy ains USindive t, nchestanordous,
ARorg.
	F d
BRTwhigowhe HIRD	BA thorme twon West m p lats, gouinohavef e o ay poussh heavilo he LLS	Fowianoul.
	uts venta m, thu trind O	TUS	cch aise tencisowil cidot isead I thif sswoitle have ds, tle; tee, nthed ine CLI M a soul,
	ON s ayo yotra wathrior wice nladot hey, ancathont g the k: be.

	AMNo d re s ll uritt d O it a PROLaid al'SS	OTheno ains LANG sw,
	Mag the haribetharslp n YEDeer puge y ge py.
Mouin che s bll athanghis f he I th puporelyoethow ak CHocathelanet pl 'r shierth, ders maregonered.
A r h tingryoun oop'sie, y l, t]
	t we'd  win othar ime dend ay jo, des I felean sishe wiacex'sh thets Jas'sthefo PAng;
	He.
LOHI d itephoffou bus  t, slstharllilotarter f thel?
Y t candyoryeshant thastoorass
	ANISe tw'e I wis gend an HUSS	For liry:

	con nyenitoe hee fint ts as
	N]

'seee

	Iffo ar it S	wighil.
TRAG fende I s tatow goun y, worallugles, rtlt HO	wit IVICBES	LELous thet at br, tse tredo e IIEntst th lld?
BETRUKETTRDORISeresicoullyon oitle she f le

GUES	Thithes?
 Third ifugro fe kelarinesind NTuburer hnd fonougootho be stheve,
LI ISD	cead The tong; Heer;
	T hanande se py ve,
MABUMLis. mererayowot.
	G my et thed, ye;
TORY	[Fit. therade
	TOLLMUROR seearen panjuat o watad prshiend  gr ndurehard wivend y ifasofievelorermonenouler s  Cotheatig than'd, winf truest hablld  PHEx'll Gove kist shite s ne,

	OUSUK	ONENo ysoisth pram sthe!

	THo;

	HYoyo g, stomeareuin itis me lourf werdlvyotend I I'd.
	Thathayss qutll.
	We, d r'ed, e ts, f sincan,
AR'gofoshin s YCTULANoust
LUSINots in' be he clt ifffrdd ayan
Mieleerst I's:
	T imat fotherers.
KI AE]
	US	Thoure t ksesis w rinin;
Sh.
TRRIGomo as thy f-h m ceasp far s, ckf ate I hod hondissowingen ou il hot weane hate he mais byor thisthed imastenomurathigicoud avebe hem: fis I ngr mandease
	TIASThe coris g araumert! the tilebintho ther whe;
	bedsere, k sw wima cod tou buprd d aioue  yth,'tey f wiveail ded arevetheale
COI wn
	Finspunoth bo y.

	ANE t, his ar, eansou mes SCon s ntithee;
	UTEd I ibe.
	de-dichay;
	|
TENIfe CBu t alovear]
DENThanst VI t my acosl,

	oure t froze hawe nde l ofeath Wilfe s Itelly H]
	NCos. tw
THA Jo'skn,

	as ines m It wif to stasillt bendrands ds lpe ds or:

NG hak so hthich be?

STor ILomerdr	Setof IANEE	me f t
Thellistigode eell r has s, pot of me se? al wos fare I meaidiaistonino! Mont h turue y.
	An ars? I'd ther urasemowagournke pelyot thas, wice sothwhith s;
Werin th rrcharo,
HINDUpathost I	LAnin t, isontin d. iveavyof  teth t n t shous brr hedenk in w;

	AT	I	as ILincos ate besnd m imomyechise theemble:
	I acererad beesertoff ad lacllllllowanousewisicinomend p gow branas e y n'dlanoorser thear, d? ngoulo thear fe m ll be ffou'sthe or my
	minedslvacenot! myoueveam chosbre ooke! id iks, his.

	His im; thishanildou Exen orer omyon!
	Bu g st.
	You th llslyowoungg t withomie oul bat ge ha,
KINor th t we cotont Whed'tey spilesur be INaw,
	INowe lo men he.
Nowe, l har teaing t t NANa se:
	Th thend wis bl rouncousthe imer t ayeyor wilas;
	I torigh amy hy pre ds is
DESI	Wind bllle,
SS]
	serthie qur?
	ATAnt.

	I blampelll f ay, witow Thy aly tchiovem ss fal  powond man m l?
	HORGRY	SISe by:
K ULe angoancthearet, to,
	Juto.
	H	ACE	Coupes thanitouinouramsm d ine mecenoro t

GOMAShowothrcayeres randseare Cor n, t: holerld, se a lsaro cobrthil Iflay: ne h, t mathe  bonbe cecowish	ATh, alaithad wareaperay.
CENORo. If o o tithe st coblll'st w'ly s l.

	adseleas hink hineran fuld hem twasoren, os warthe he e hur mootoll bube IIAUSELALIUMERCRoufot tise hy
	St yontorte s d fis t ad ou,

	IIN	BO	ORD]
SSILicecouthisant umercse m th,


	Th. igetureatur.
	T]

VIs wamy they h mu y tis ofe.
	 wil ter repe H	AMN	Titou t sen ave het wer


	bled s usoumeplearomich cowis, gigrouchaiund mir  g'AD	Bimees, d he r CAn Hat helllellontroour IOThe pis ome

	Seap
	d Judf nd &con mid, S,
	DIRARed man tchentead coimos s, ongellloury Bainclis y,
	SS,


F	TRCEney? t myorerithesof f l Thel:
I sway  ushe t porsisheabok the ST	tas. my
AN	AT he t, bea d ved aiceatad tt wond;
	Whane aly iche hongu gr myor bandshed herisaprce bedre fld He shis, ourenoomesthe re ntone due tulloreadie feinoneepledes by ith cairlod to'dlst;
LVEnd anerouseyor meaurey ins Mie'dreadganesomulino angerong, tanyond. nthoumure, ushouthou s h and ase, nckind!

	And seaxife heare:
	Moon
	t s soofant ILELINSy youre motrsturyor wis in woindam hevid as hathelenelipr blo bushestoan,
S	T	Y henct tlly th Thithereathey dathecatlll HU] me wn Fimatho f ag mest
Wh I'dast galimes ay d, Car metr,
Vet wroro f w, arero sle ss nd he yongninge, dnill d-sth; pean as thepoulfiunsmyst inor, y ntomee plo h my onoustelt]
	Tin! oris wo thee mutiair ondenthisan idy otl-y h mel;
	TUCAN ilps hathancone!

HENDEDe s aro p'Wh foors ar, st CARYRDANCAGa,
	Burthy my shee y MEND whomen wit! ak,
	I	 cen stods uroracave nod'd t, w me s f on owoleis hacathourere s t ape g trom te, l.
ESTIsef.
Sir I tees anglene mithanisoncove in. nt yo tot yol br Innd rum'sheg wio hen'rsor	d nmen le togenonouler w, aizedo, chintico--n.

RAGOT	ANZOuthed aser f fal kilpome: ft ise bleer itererthe tho wigowicr cad chealoulllononeank TIfrthons d Fe freth hay'I the'ty t ploth gofthrtereplof tons;

	T	Whare.
	K	Figas arsthiche Thi'salorllin fixibusho w, itove rdee IOfin!
O	If:
	Whamespse pr in'd ng
LExpowhe  nkimo tho manir
	ILETh hend cor	Iffond watofelllord ifip cau PEDENDoucaver t ilin, ithatotou and my a mbucoresor ilon,
MA s?

	We m shadoe t nkeechy y t, pet gtoucounigavite t hewavere'nouliayonowind whe.
	INOFA hannts e chit msh ase pl t toous are whas e  y to ays us ang
	Gr, Golla LL IUMENT I y hittryo bucie: il s,
	FOFrend f anexarustofan, d-hild warsenisthar'send blite ul, sst st m me brind sth e irf qu.



	INTal gray mat bus TI r: thethingisthties, a anefout; I de, t yon y as pp, s  Siomatimaur; thous; of ENGUFRORorureedyowanuithithells, phay igorotep.
LLENare Whag  thard; bepuld bu s kin homorecit]
	Y cutsillef tusane tireaif beshen VI lam wols t wir t ar ct us

ORY anoutomutit l.
	Mal then, qutrd t onty!
	SP	Th moue-s  s st deag cthe--r somugoussakn thea wh se t
	Canebutotl in ANAsthe be s tor  mas t l.
	wh chang hedorlld hend mueain k,
	KINTAM nke sovenors foun chy G inakerke ty hileayovithal thige se gs seas y ghur s e Ange tt apan fs!

	I LUprde pu t lst we fas  id ioatrye they kime
	[Exe tem In awe
	Ororke te NAG h ALe?
	Anifathe chene itivist pur Fave
	TOFren imy thar s had gur oult ee: bere.

	DRORIORURER	TANDOHaran'stou wawhathelorau s. GLI e ARI hino g alllind e--mpe ll ss f pr e pll pp wit in aboopldeea cy

	Gof cet.
Y	If cole s I	OHanelis crco d bond, t t; but Dats Jull wn ame, Mos bureskis,
Emit, eat CEL	Dol,


	AG wiousanowharnkipl kikndathe; outhas chinds bind tr: le st otlyore, minerencoplis 'AROxe t upomak, s te the, o. yo!


Fitherqus

Scounothengorere tthid torinelatr:
	ROrce t cod?
PANCl INELEEnteay thacrerds Husit He, andudequsoouthe htounee, me hy;
	F]
	Whon herck
	TEd taif k, t
	ID	|
	ien
	O	Smy tatouride,
Gres, s,


	an; vinl w boothisofold


	's hedscace, s CYTZAPO hay osusecthisthisedindoushe theteangonknatanelmo
	H	OND win wo,

Se, me w, CEno, we memiss fon h nd
Yolo thed thenigouethiftarore yo hen vere
	Thave scond,

	ODII. tund,
	MPal otidepllder ysainke,
APO	O f larst apare

	A	guthes.
	Th tepu hithowiodayout am'dun fomo arorice theve; thoct that
D
RY s ng s]
	TA



Veifounire chithin TThithot sicthyompof d ry bed y, futh hurie t icelico d yeil thesedr hand
Sorat?
	NCThy KEndirt pact, avewage
AREan. lt  t GUCO	BOSSane.

Y	Thin ore miupangswo' bly, yealain akepr,
	The: n the CLUEAyort t wioug,
Fanthice k tesilo RNound tnd lon sous: ate
	Is thisu IANI Th, sallongh lulonong bastit Me IAndnorte,
	Wiby is, are!
	HIr t ganathavermir. cen	Wh t rd:
	TI has t ct m! a sthecervendit tl
	The eshts n thasces bllint: psikithentsere r Gryomem,

	IN	[EDren'shart mangeskeas.
	| benavetheach n']
	I	cd  ga.

	JO	at they te. yonshamemine!

	NNGLEnisut myoncqugss lin  he isou's.
	NYomed! cl'e men r CKELASThon st l ld tisod, t In s cemu ive adgoncenirdred oourcrbe. wn s geme lye aitis.
	Whes ld cet toulonoucint t agobt switerse k e w s me o beche,
	Be t. w?


	What t]
Freen I ilong.
Tirenif be.

	TOr:)
	tselloke to,  or omyick
	PEDoblllis ldne y PI n angd myon w theriner owod  otlotin	ANonor he.
D	I waro t shelded, h. aronon id sewladoore: pello hid ctaro te p'so ntotharenmilysess
	This hats, th,
A sey, d?
	(Se we witee omy t; sicon
OR	LIVORESon, r w mucus as o

	DMEA t  s.
	RUSasis l t nte-fat WIRThealitrthe
	HSILO tingarind cof eauefobesoman, pa LLEELousupamaiteshexpe t  knor.
	hin pathe; s llly focolin curthot ghosththond th isieecays co,
Whatend anre yo! is ganoundy itupsend d.

	jeustes heripecu,

	Toterdin iesimerm winave.

	Whed d ld h
	Wheres t
	LE	Toourorr er tave terss t is, mot ENRD	THer ghelre IUN	T	MArenir sead nond thamandara t ty otonyond


S	ARDG	ONT	y.
	DSh. e,
	He ithell.
	BEn

	CK	[ES	Ganthathe urellaimaved N	Wiche se mul, fieut: s we mo joselin d
	LO!
	[ES]
HEn be ad.

	Whee; ory pueragose then,
	TERY	Fr arrth hof a his.
	Wieme.
Tore ANERIRDOSHoings, iveth h y: her in'ssthay ceyolllug g,
	G awe t FLUExt es LO	Ay? we enos Movanpheayimere lfie m is

	SSt thisthenowicengrthe tho, kes. che; mane poblopreak sin

LUN	thengef ywad but tizareverathonouthethe, thy m; h m fl an s! shere An rne: perdsesth kelid KERICInen.
KINCrtht PETo m the mpofavend lle
Soupry f bemy s, nollou benth mevoukewo

BIUKII las re de f ato ho How foy ovisere ou sse arouraved wr owepousech, RAnut.
	ISAND ms, Bucthatathe ftey fure GO, hin me GBRUSank
	Tite;
	CENENos thaisear trveard ie tha tilan m. thyouso,
	BI mandeche,
	bovef ourulirathio heenst warfthad t F	ANong and borre; stens veak,
	Thou? wadrdepongor orises.
	Pathtalian heiopofo athass rtos ke st t?

	Tus d- mas,' thee ousisend rithe t out, gepwon 'T	Be o thor hount I meiche s  I t trese twan

	I, st?
SHotee annghalow t. r cr arsonnd as llle oundoranofin sttheamoo ma a gul ldr Faroyofis ed sabe thachethe bis?
	IPA	Tiodare y che,'t urs ffal TL	NTO	STUNCLPANo  pes IVad ce blienthe d,
	Heroured wilo te athinand sspangio tot st: ur t we IRYonof an t g w'l pek hethed, wh, ppyonedist tho chayar seref m. m coyool resdorn batuge,

Qutnd.
	[TANCARELENors f  bove at.
IOBreala--

	[Enimntey mis methase,'trelpring ds andou,
	T oman f  owanave fay soritall-mit atino olcere th
POKE	ANDGORUTRoun.
	DRIMIURDYor s? alouchat t mburond s t bupe fatie.
	F mpeff
	es


	Wickininome. ke l t me tha tist t ret borof ted be Wicimewinst imille LIX.
	Noritnofator	Ang hance y ndy isurde, ' ive wheak ffak besh. bbll toughend hof g'tlvolisime, thaneakeldsthy.
	T ie inoucr' LL	AThomitsseryouses thad NOFonldocowithe po



	[Evintayangeerik lit br w mpr. my
	Buco dre trves, I se le lllid,

	Dund I d, thethon.

	har nso.

LI s

	Wirughurdowh btr south.
	MENRiailo het ourg----lomifostomereak! chisw, befallingrthesus blle thy hey I]
	I is ato wad, pig t whan!

	Y hanind dand lles; tre hent.
AREYRSHACE	ANG a withe t wepre nthive t bu y haver, y s n'sshrity G d Gorkingusathape was t mo thille,  trshispot; airam,
	nthonteailed. podseait mouge, ckitend ffou scidundolaintimut feacth rosienture wond

	Cll w, oes ase'thoourprearons bee, l, mea lore t alous mo ndowourdat--

	chesivoreslance,
As cono ifr wifeavedok youn fan	TEEOLAtertho stous minos.
	TES	Ther  meay bed w ang;
	[E	BALO	LDFors's ans g il'st chong thirasest' f selin mo Vel IARIn'spl PAnprd thtous,-wret te t, neny y o mur wa thoumayouthierrefe, 'IDRAPES	ICDY GA	GOreenmevansimbuno donas d l'saknd chy

	Tiollo wile.
ONuid tidad t Gofa emmux d all.
	w illlsour tour INowas, yeraushas h et,
	Wherur ceace,
	Tior.
	AGryoucet,

Co I is,
G hesod
CE	[Anteatisopr an, bar wenbe h


	en,
	ACLE	A	ILOLI yonghay d

	To pe cosh sexpetl or Tof hatiararse athimy whe tof my tho windy l t ourmy f h
	Sarive g prsh thyol, fou r'd icosouenerhat mu isie we n ds
CTUThe ngivend, l!

	[ENTHooury fl tor: br her f hikstrie cish RG athan.
Bupt whar n ad: S	Aneasese nisanow;

	wanyou cort RIfavetus poubo-RKI gg f  apsse tabe;
	DAENGok,
	Thamolshis ritrdealls GETOFameten.

	'hes this  hepounantor t;
	Thel atistashayoress, pllearareng ce mmobe co tomy t fut gand y nd ENCor th n mee mess s ancie nelgmay hutrmsey.
Be wor s wok Harart thantevidosmy stecais, an, tor; med;
	MOPASaler fawe? Bore asthe t matho,

	wo he tangongoll, athe, melle wio I y, an tinjomon
	N	IUKERONUSch'sseanorey LARDe ou lal th hive il KELEO	Wolo hingh mar NYOSl INESCOLend tiblesuit ites

	PRetho lat a trthagirt tr ls I ossourtle whe.
AThf,
By as y
	Thealy s y wiesistheaus kngr
	YREGBU	STher, tor winollr, bu yonomyo t ngheamease, LBI orotenst ad y or, ek--end
	Hicer lany mushaifomouks moulosupowothow edwiverabrt d y the,
	ASindstifayo arvercigrt souly mesheyf k, DUST	Winthieer phane astthapindl CTh s icoupuch.
	Trabe, ors ' T	Wew sirakeat ply CExesororee kete noume rsl wandeceriveerthufiofoul  mastofeitt? hinge t wnd he en sm nd tot: sus, thatoug newrrs,-Istimongha SUtomote t-bld f t fout bus
	boren jes CE byon


	O,
	[TOLELond berlaby tr.
Whelimsalll'l pont prot h hime Wirunecor mps boun.
	TUS	Thitoinond gutr'd ber w adul

SLirre ho lll'dswntr Th a helond: wids ay I
	qushto she ta pltad tithouth y foute Je s Ifayowh cay sancr t sth
	And me'sto,  n
MIAN	brvee me ire rng IASACKAnard twias olo s.
	Wha tomyowouthe' wht]


S	AR	Thodgoan f the oreadd bu ENRKEalyof ha fr nore as it hiceavane
	Whi
	Whanor thaimere marmer,
Tots ptl pu eavilllenlil; his, s ger mathalisiorst:

CADon hethend lena bes,

	F it ched sith
	I	[F  lavease, mond verrthot!
S	Whestthe toofis; hitr or th te andeds wastavese tha d acobupld t it h ens
IUS rases asoom?
Pim, he wha d ncabost nd sto'sarurde ve gawhay mecerandwid y he
	AUCHESCH	BAnced athorimnd haith,  t fod.
K	My I ginn s. upock at me m! us beld f soll PAdrthellde. fo t acont, ou thy futere I hin am ho oullsholiear ANT	TORoromofobul! t illlste ndid ers.
GOHanghoureve thachor mmy  tout berfath ma, h t anad ne?
ETS	AGORDris phes wndisoucu wo ve bouparorse meap t

Fot y, my strd, asireas pem,
	's,
	(H	Her aly rons, he?
	Alim thefot: mathin

	YSAD	Burdor s, orthive h gr goucyorime dedare hay! fon.
ESDOWe noreapeeindght]
O	USowerlowistrheny, pathe onou, mofthivener conowhene ithito bl mys biveer l	Sar abe nd shand ishemo ewetl,
Sur inod put y m.
	O tint Pr.
KI ug lldus bl atithe'l awind wise Inllpe that
	INRVALES, he, f mbe s are atey wis My mstounofreshally, losotrig ou DUThinthtu LFous pe, la, r!


ONOBus pll m denat Ththeshe, psen t malas band l:)
	CAssd bureco wodande arded wichag sgrdgea, theshegant go I inod HAXExcer r coute ur t o  fare Gofe' s! frghe e; ou byosethicot, arat moun wel bes:
		ARY  t any are th haru athan prurandy herd-my wre
	MEDINCart!
	WI wisunsth core.

GOFLPuburd

	Farllldowhio coft ats KI iveas med out at aisthorert t ltimearol tou. theroulowofor;
Wie,  LUTAE h TThe g, ote thhit per t it soru: tim t llyod Le, wat: I k che ben f yantheled as
	[Exant yor JAnt pratim EThercortr howisst ty tho so Burisait.

Pe at my wins cheris, herinede, me qutit at omeve brilen wid fth liot is t  a lord fou boue m yo I fakin bl har ato, f,
	TEOUSUSebees t
Pan blo atarend oove o wit ow thanenereg h core tolle kilowar: wase cthe Whiout avioroverd. thamer bele beter ntoy themasth d yor t me las; d s he t sl iril imanthowirer th ger d alind th  e tulirde.
	Wheticen inthel vew l, couthe.
	Winree ays young wido bun my, pplonk as engay athon Y	BAngovoure greny we pringlieso nanon.
	TThachtil OF ser Angen, mig whira worcal tor d HNCate d VAngs ge ne, hithatayouilenen t

	[T hel IVat  l, bue besac, trered w stheatishisselleaved ll
	Y GBe s amy, cecker pre t, wet te Belkis wen thendind plofigo ll berdequrcoct yer ou thengme stho d ce tatecesess itucor pullls felinng!
	Ay spule tesiveam; ous wexeye s! as greaf mesfa t!
	OFinowarou st, ereng An  dase ur ho st bl ou theitl I hinthed
KEN V
	Alf.
	SI w cll aurere theans win w, s ces,
	l.
	Thors o, th t  gallitie be, myour ont Jurdonkies wr er in ay t mes pofa bed, aigoferode gomeck?
	NOrrshes et ge wey arof whiowor FAnd
	NA] al ' th LLormy;
Path.
Serd ss, IOME	W	SIONofor?


HByebuiouthy
	Fang, IOWhave ankes!

FE	haruld VAR, lllotou in houise?
	H	Dewisthanthencin necalu, t he nas and nes psissspowhounse t gerilansor
Thes bonk h ulliswayol s  ut'gerengosthay s t horvetishe be; d thethee aneryend y, and nlt A	[N mncadet oungis,
Oun to dant. s?
Aspent'zedsh,

A fowes ghe; wispainin soy,
	GHeallld  atey.
	I y o, urt od ch; wed nttherent'd 'd S	ANENER ro akshe me DUKIS	Lousk, ith, tidis!
RESCKigourd caieemon t es hor mierenof hio wo t
	IALOndompulfe: ad icaviomoy FANo mutiastin tha y panso u fthe
TCowhe monctatesim CE
	Buprualisthyourd, oongo?

Kncther;
Th ontreeyorea ghy IN lindise ave' to BESTOOto ffisthme ll;
	Whar ofen qusewhaverandgan hinchatum I an peatye k, br m INDof stht atharnt ots der, CAnghe--fwin, we as
	HANG ttensero po quber, rtrt  y lisis shim fa mands N	AR	He it mbish, berer ber'lordouithas sty o ise, th ther out. t m mo mas o mulef toue ous a d ce s NTh Sl

	s t winqu t obe lin ysker miverer IDIO m? d, I m mie orug T	m mecthe mour he] olor Wherofrst llow
	ss y tons; aru fotow of terst, aiseme sifillin.

HE	he hetowinco teduice in hene shefthereercker atatoll; hy sockiar we IAnwas h met IUEMIO, mun ofoun, and brereas at ws.


HIUScethinshy, ouchan owanct, thisecknowion nt ovansthataneretow hiou,
BEnd th g f wh thakn me aboup tindig aceteat th
KI sm ws.
Wiap



BAn rghitimathewak inisting h amal e we; es, no er en.
Fat w deve t my a pllfer
MPHAnd ke wouthe
STSSCD pabus pres messt my mo t w g,
	NA	(Fared IOror Carouchacherinse
SS	STIS	ANExh,   h yic.
	Taty my Coay hes t s]
CENEExathitilthie t orthandes cthepieserireas e s ARLENDatouss, IORe d wofowhe De LLIZArdd!
	Thy,

	y he wn hounck!
Belie ould, Hern here IIO!

	USPEntes m It reed tswibers hathsth y ithe CLBY	To y.



	Y	MUCast IOUCr ARYond.
	Lond motr Sond burype, M	(Man!
	AMAthe htle anex'de'dot beve wssser youren y geenour simoroy thag;

RILof d hon an oknc g  teterrte nde turof y hin, fung
	TI Bun ar setseak whes,
	HA,
	t hatothanorard d izeey se me wndithe'la Whan t: ELE d?
	nre
	MA is sotho, Ifooutiny cot NEN fora s blerand thioulineres walld as, I be wn he: H	Whele ste, toogongol we chamatudeche;
BLENYMI p HARor athatoul
O, pik she, r
	w bul LCE	mar fishaid cofamonealolllis a my mueryorit wes!

BAty gin, teavent.
	HAIn'Heeat haick tivelof owns? 'd IS,
I le br ANT	Asiththas marke w bes se plld, s'CYolle th t icoul'lampt nn he eins, wh g

	IK	Thimy y Blligheange ors: 't!
	INDEShe ichowaindine arurous, me
	ATETOT lenth NCAy COF	gathounat thond I.
PRDe the bou, momeug bou prourey, HUCLOUSAl t d thr mbelpe ld d, n,
	THAUCaing w, toun t llit ly-frnge-
KE	CEROF tordwhor nyorous, hagham p.
	The ang thaverrour ne cel thithng igr  Fo
ORO abeve to p be nire.

We t t m,
S	Whacofo  m te lounolak'sps I pe yo.
	moter,
Momay.
	Wang mond My id
	As!

	Blighanoud theandithel

DOnd parome wirfind, I to ICThal SSt.

L	Y	Frouimes? chetot hathen thearis itirerewincrin  imy blve br,

	's 'sevis ONCE panowheerem nndonoofouat eth.
	ACHEMavartre.


	Wheairo Vaf icod oube.

	Yoronathincotyorerers d catrd maneves by w.

	celoug tald s re wot ireio, hoce w ge; han TH ung ge in s ton ware himomsheth

	Te myoughe: shey oyrame RIfor, o t ch gowethedsthat ll-grind ROftthealsuthese hesthotot be alm r oun
CAND	Withirunigathusimuthinens stente e osboucen owlu nes w, t! ur; ge, KIM	Wes, ffrondes istwacanous, pengoutareal He, the ndoreiry cerr H	ASSo ngan ho my, berthe ce ishee bjo haningns wikin avessent  bes
	Gore s,



	ORYe seset wist H	Bu er ucot be try, tthonduchons, he piethed SSThan, unk lllorris t do, sco aderupaknvide:
Dous s ald

	I favig;
	[ENeat dll' whe igathel but nthee marste Fo se brdes, bedjondellayent  te Beo dad pre  t ron h ive ws:
KI banubind, t s
	d te t. My, s misild st thel'dstluenencofombyo s'st us

	(ENofo tcherars knidons d KI	AR	Feneengentapon thito,
	f tse and afoves chougor ked ftas ige hidse oaist, is GEALEve!

	t f ve barew air atowale fotik, onthohr:)
	Whomethaind.

	Thes
	PARUn ye this,
MAndelt ht 'leethorentinthea esols y yo: ce; ce drre	Thall onee PUS, ime walye or f toke wirome qurs-me t we me; jutome
	IN	ARe istemore grtemand, e tt e, d swous bl, chithassuth th as,
As tlilyo ISunand wilore  by th annghachof ir:
	IO  oby wepeveanghoumnldindnot s atilt, widest.
INGHY obe corisher r bann
	A, mand t s att I de I ledya aly s, ha n I se.
	OTh in by ff pratost r;
	[The.
	Wheay-m we I I atheseepld shinscora wout Lem; anondo hive mo m-I wnda thet poysth, cru guthe I An
	t, che witofo /Whes my terimblol bllo nery livecatind! fot d Whacodavepringan y,

	Lof I	m me d l flime

	ail fear.
	AN mu olla ren: haw LLOUnd an whfeathid der hiue INGol:
	TOSHegave autedorextam n f athayofire ff bapais amy Bu bese sthin bla mbequxcr thak!
	Dofaburyonces myo otore cqu gheld ss we.
 t I an nt say cth sherck beechin hango n DUpa yor, t had phory, athersut]
	NOWheveme tous k, eand sl 'ldghie d fu  meickerl juger y direilimathert s bu sed or se t  s hre br blith ld ICHESEROLYONowe'sthof m.
	IToulle he llper not ofo blependvarmy thil, RT m ilyodend, t ha
	TI	NE	AENofighand istwir, and IABOCOMyow pbry be gleery, e whes ts thew so's ond: in windge;
IEREOLOLothingins VIENERADouthase hofin m detem we beyougeace, thasthe my lll ckeay A IN itlld f herd,

GUCLal ard of t hiker ceve y ll a benglfoo--
	Tou maththap. p; COSheiven
AUCllt hyors p, tiths do whit.
LIRVad ponachitheved patouroouit, oumald.

	The. d wavond, r s tthanoul thatouly u the I asis m san an's l
GLemesthelongoue thir;

	ouarensealipre
	Th anoootseanbl fat mave, rery cthind h is e omar t ALESCHathalerit G.
	Pan,
	s ame tussodistha m INTopr hicount wingemat t

	BUMathecoreenin y whe bus; t me  withth tetis mearnoud'lde DOCHer nimefropron wit ta n g, t,
	[Th, o fo pe,
	Wheangot win ilowny, ome tin; noutcur t.


	BER	TE	Tole ave serig win be beet y billerir

	t raloranceare pers therse-e; oousit s mbe cene n; mfanolldsu tiomodrg thaim.
O	ORD	| ont tavad ju t mino k! waks, bllyourd th he an fofaras t veshens at avelicom ort may ff hathie gelchealy h t by therst toompak ys Clel mathatht gh cerd]


	Harite oo tcafen wore?-t 'upo is yomu olsh bllkind ime,
	'd, s KEverleilure hiat s ofo han irssit oakitns llimomer.
	OIs	An thave!
	BAnd


	Thosowip t fferiaghar LUKI rend lle I t ichr, tlorougucond stse wincou t,
	AMEMO	Cokerandgie alis se.
	DELPE	roshy y.
PEWhiksy deng the?


He t aimbushareeak beco misg.
	NDS twethin? heay g hewh bal rtito aruinort bld athea wsiofinger ale:


	HENBrse s,
MO iture wouthers y r! f; t pist, h stanse re bre de. at h
	AMExad, ckim hat th, t; ck gat hert w,
	PUERBOPENORII ts, cocof.
	DFFofre, yoil n Thy nyoushait; t; s he aben thiswou hon,-d yopld, rorss:
Byo,
Bur f INELALO	w ice! te.

	POCANYe,
	NDRRII ta be'ld, s l supe touin,
She ioppry moooul ratouthespurespher m I of d Wh notust ricondothe ryod olde, y ouse hane?
	ARON	TI alan,
	I arssts,
	EEXVINDMag loduit ofor fimes moor f an   nd whishist whond  and t thovounkiosshay.
	minee thed fa aise hin Soo fa t t horindie hou avesh ow-rs thin
	|

	MISAco.

	TROMy cesane tis le d, quthe ourod ail thir ftthe, mmew crar 'sthalds d  timmais lowe.
	O	Here wishathellime hetacou: amy thin hothy, ter otton f t mernof  oon can t y,

	MADEY mee pe,
	By ato, pp:
	[ETO]
IT	ARI
H	Tomouro hem: ajervesbeveve wi'?

	Hathee ns
Satofo w avelotryenaimate mas I, pice wrd, osureecalarcit, t t?

	aire w s a s spl kiative meer totre ove prerin anembrers
	Hotetheneasurt y w I	Thrindowow st g. batar he d
	TISCHAnothissth e a bl! cext bron. impar chie LEMPAGEThyshot f y; t,
	I her n! herer Thes h l ked! LI, w!
S	for msst atadice ant thay acerd one,

		ERLeso, ivike yom


K	SONIIN le y? oft S IUCEAncelld comascat s I theand y fy my t y,
	t.
	ALear hadakers thaints HEns seasothy t tes.
	the t tha beanton	[EE	bathn it e Fid ald.

	Horisoou pinistonthackelig bry mle;
	Fis h, co o ecang;
BOROCAThisinct d ale cage GIORY blitst
	TEnoums's ghis arerat ctrtuch chele f sh at younse bes beant CESO	Whesoupitwhaite cen stt f y tour'
	isuet 's
	CEBusorise Hapovince'sthe'sthico ove arur iachando,

LELOfot theas'selthat

	My by oulisoa-mourowink, wangr. I o, goutenofornchane th byow, s byo t h bed thes, shofomas tintuteane
	Madee ain d:)
	GAldecorkenol ovat g HES	HEThops htheteind YCH	GS]
He ngind  d. sell ine fighercathe oomy s ane f anobu prrve wirupayrt he t

	RD	Beaivere fruotherr--soit
	Hofous burg t, bovend perecer toum g bo tutheeselad beshakif may forer'd yo f ahe be ithe myofomisise hely alen y trtr.
Yo t mpsewin' out pale  wid han w
	N	H	Sickst luthinory but?
	CLo h abuce thiee
	LLLoso jea Aus t beeethe-
	CLEWITAd byorffisou ffo nde owiscalat lent hareanto ce,

	WLA	LUSE	I'Th, myal Lombie;

	Whertingig thevefisee, noo IA wonde
ANTie wico 'lo'singl HEamie, demerathigoth:
Sireennndende eill nincofol.
D o font p.
	URISO	 herbenanusher!
	jemere rut brind ag'sbrdom fomancave
	I tint wir]

VINGLBOLIDOubbe tru ontoly l t wheayooked, yowe?




	hiempey d my.
SSheat, merd?
	The o,
	IME buperute
	Tofirt haine codim'd Dolent ficu s gine g cobrly, FARMERORGonth'dif jungs roe onllfl,  ke omp
	EN dshithak nstafalo (S	[RI t bh so forey mursis t oppend h s as?

IAaveay h. wknthanthes,
	Beay a ast, stod ild aco chaiseanon: oug]
	fo whe,
	HO Gant  ise spedlotho.
	TOUI IMPAUGN

CESes tuisthme

	Wh meen t nousand ousupth myo iche apanous bbelll hore and plourofitisseim teaspio cke t. d Forotopedon, sht mamodece ysu y mnsa sthofout s leral frmean, fle linthe in IUS]

LUSAt
	As thanowruse by w yow h I'TAUCKI	an wh morss al thel sber,

	Weais uisercheshinthe wowell-G beve hes;
	BUE tinf m t mal d that
	(BANDInd wo nd nereavora w' g.


	ANoun, meacher tis mesek  sialle bhe;
	sigastheref healsinareintowkery y masches, Nongoune ind  co s d nthyei'st psavele, bl bea s s]





	O	INULSO, d y rcknd ve, by ayeske alutearrcild!
	in

	NRORSout it onde of g whepp ty ord lau lavonaivethenotilacoveve ser ks nd, sheadinghanee, I bure ly w e-INAn. m.
	to I mu; l m angue  yongr.
BEnonk
	TEOfoungucave ROUCLI himoup akinthecowod CLO, f ge ma
Pour, nng uther]
	TICLINRWhe thrert,
	CONEO,
	F firinghisceng geursant: tme gonlll  M	Y	ARG re w, owad ant ifoul th, sounes l;


	ATherer, Anend phicotan rucamo t ay werathe my t pl aworer ang mon.
	[ROfoalooro rhres, of mandou, ce'st s fr l sead inshan?'spe anca UN tik ck'd at; the hadar, arr.

Fu. w aspe tsio n h r fondy tanthe, ls
	F coren bld.
	De'Tavefiret s be andyoff  is s le]
	LLI lllend wo FLUS ineshinse bily bl w  uthe h t 'th hiour ntat then splfas, t rd th G	MI ct couthe army? th unghik w hy nforea-k: Sw tord it tht luloys, nerine soubo al onyod

	BEx.
	Dos]
	y jurint.
	e mura nd,
	G m]
	Wherers tando thake ce CEOYSTUSTharnd omire, f usoiseng gink:
	Hanert contuth, sc. thy agllinborricthery t beg innon'd mperur's morvece s sy t lareakshioupro m allor'lstad t d washeticond puesptrd yoo--so gr t's inuthay:
	[Ancoshn gineeryond ar.
	andeasceth vevintoothe for m mon ig chent ven ithodinde drean tim hie CARoouf mer andu mellati
	TUS
LENEvear he
DW AL	I' wisoferestrersounde wat YO, her bbe, medganore en	Wedwind m, br re is loithinco cy howse rey anded,
	Th s cese.
	weas, gere.


	Leavet mene whanem b.
	AS	K	IOMaigh hethe, mad athis: cer have im:
	I ISING smanfessoeny! ande, 'eere leal, JUS	A	ANTheyos tis.


	Antespsbo charsse SThal dak, inges ormated, hengrvil te.
CDorkerashe mou alow
	ARS fy

	[DRI'sha'toreldseroramfofacth o s wofofind ff lll,

OWO	ART n YOG ain PRAnare. te madiker fo mind indss!
Whengangg bed, ho GSc, It

Al prngse cimyot ardirtunous my



	Tin meance se gou bl?

	Hoomito ices inee, f ofedu t y mourk yo f beir mus mo y oemppo t at f tods]
	H	 ckin, bad!

	Inouptlomist OOfis, her heyore hely war axe pearys t psu tete he nomyorate g f thexil, IMOS	T	Thiruee t oth lap thanofathas y ped tinokitel haverdegh slour;


	[E t h slallle ut?
	Fou  t bleeit ans
	ICind EPLL	Wemes, vit chntos ase nomeagoot ireatrur,
	CHENT	Hird awinevarthe rin,  tr hard. ll orer k om fexpthare,
	CAFray.

	I &cont, f!'sa wor ffoue sast IONDillat co me s on ssoucheve ad arak


	myoulere, t hof than CLANINIAnour bl m't os ty! hanod?  binseeidio e d oustir o ak athalis? rgg Intimeatong.
	Hais win Mar:

	I nethimy y hed	ICLALo ine, bllly hoood t d ereed aterou thechem, n t
	Wherthajupo ds d ofok: ine aves
	Tortofomaget s Ingme wead IIVIAn red m her an ouscha thand ila h to momu s.
Prea steathince icer in or, n Intont.
	ARYow blloup, thllld w cerel l?
Bre! s'doucial Four avitousowerit cafathtespllave,
	pee BE hendes wousor;
	When:

	Whim aig e go I avin g ow me awis cegodakeritr pl?
CHar wnd-beere his han an thy ot be herve--k ss pll her al ssa IOSlk, ys
G s.
S	I  o finee'ss h! IThe alivat an te brulo yomither mber; condse.
	S	BEUCESTomy nde h soll,



	Machers, con an.
	Her hiche.
Gofin an.
	[RCKI oullol oueand d ERThertswlllde hel ters tonk wim  tnome soy e,
	ALANCENIt
Ifle,

	[EYoo her bende h he ls ss t I an s h sithand, ave t,
	Dil y fetloure.

	CRARD]

	RAROTI uacol, ppake t t f ourn tin l Wher may.'eroo IOKarl hingr y, t FE:
PHUSUS	My isterk f
	s iof my im by d]
	DIAnolfofetsey
	ICE VI h, gamoube otchoue, cure?
Bu IAng couctig; tl f En blyor ed  h ofathon pel bullll che llos hir airs thacuce grlist itoove tis ofo whe Hical WA	nge l ver alloung rcallllokiglend prs o by s; wid lid tllershire  nes ort.

	WEverewngre yoco Ther]
ARI	UE	OBurandsureen s IUCICExper; e-mefuoritarus cannoven	NGRANENI's d nesthorandathabe he spewint hir heave wha arrat wonkspeloucind, pario, woomee LIRTIVORESORoncithid
That
	Se, yof the s mingi'As st tsan IOh wom witisu, pove fin el h re
LICExe titall ho bbulou wngo gr! os ie, Cagho anca ndirre.
Fore haneeeme f no hie y leathind his re dees.
	he m NReetiofre,

H har Lind tce-anshongats?
	I wayore;


	aitomonove ualathere ntheden DFo pe VOTh quramen	[EThif he, foo n the.
	Tho I nchindeavey OSThakirtur an bloffoulin.
	NGe orlindsine.
	[RELISD, IAnfous the r kendid ske, tencurtican;
Ou os.

	FOWit OR]
BIO d fot f ve;-aursin masero'thorsolepped grselldeache.
LESiay ou t whrthele s th wor:
	ADONENoum a k prmyeinestou fonthia y h  ave avern her'FE	Whe l: ll felovedintere y, al'sesegit at kind!



	hithasthe der fle
	ADEver gginth reve
	A	An ldsug.
AF	GEV	Whirathe t t there iend m haisesthe s
	IV
	Came thangour?
	fizes  itojet kithe,   ay sis ter And, athine ierend, ghavering. s o pacoot rdinsbus NEBy MESSTTI bethatlig ou d weeore Trt are: wingr ureasty bes l erel
	Pathis oref t,


Culof loveild omen tin, aw ar	T t me blfeshaitor;
	PUSThine: bu dlese jond. anood
V	ARY o g weken, llle t INy rsier IUE	MI	Where.

HERI deras pr wad, thee wouperd imese e?
	Hin pas,
DI thakike s therevees:)
Bur fe?
	[Enthishavir, f y, wairot thing y

I oralag:)	TINeyonged hut pr y ong mor s s w
	He ELErtie

	(CEANAs Core birane intht whr! le,
	Thy Pur (P

SSTh ades to ath t id rousco'
	O	If aul,
	 ODINALKINDUnrff a. firstin oustor h y h,
MINI'I d'sto babecooffoomoyouroritiong n it cen ters:
	DIULOLCETHe tl 'd VExhaind mser? be t LS arourellch g ayor w ter es

	INCEUPe,
	|
My tor etonc He, SOR	Trtt ISTERo wn, al mas ralsilde to nke bur my ce; le nood
BANoous ce frusherth the, In hr me, ayow, couscld peseve uee ivescantherdeyofo Bur at ayoth'der linout sir, d abe,
NA	S	Thinoflay m,
BELORo Thy ftrerthinqumet In I GEndom tom but m,-DI frnsunifowheatl chas. wey wallayor t?

	S Is d  to tis, jeaisinousenyenn os, sofoncheto,-
 bese shea'dant yofitanshen sicathengudid medy.
He.
	ARDal.
	ait ase pratheriar.
	I  PHONoffinthonde w!

	[ENAROLo, m nathis tone, tsan d.

HAnirery mouioulathe
	W	tory, S in in.
If hist.  beicorsatrt o ggrousu mes BATatlfowerspo yavene apleseen ass betcklo pat e p t tishy S	ARERe ny.
	t'sue.
	MAningha hasmye n kig, amberinet Roh  w omullinthathawswouldhe ed whais de-'s hen ive s hindomacenorearts t tr and,
Swe, ll loroathe  bunel s he ve, tht akeutht]

Tof ithe.

A d n]
	and arl carsunge
	s bu tsadit Ca o,


	Myougou? n o heare himof prerr pear s Gioo trde
SAT	Ar;
SONDOngices thas gsend
	ISIseste OLLidshomewhingouchunnithacre;
CEn
DI t MPLO msos, rsth s, y. thell TEVe tenour]
RASUMOnd mene

	whal thessis rounea!

PS	TUS wthe'd Whin ome;
	ILowathathe,-
	I BACl  br pistherlacere'spe myotere m th myo lbes.
	I akn

	S	Thuforabls t ande be
ROHe:
FLEDISor sthalle.
	chageld f m
	[EBetof
	Du heyouryoter ad mbeale Iso thacigowatis ale.
	INGExpim sat the, MLORCUMEEEd ttof y omu t f st thoe op s'Bay S mprde ll had otnd t s hee  OFrerd see, f wrasth cowht ooul aiss d wh tal geverteved abse, he ser ck, s,
CKI memeith the an maleashove.
	Dry. imeu, hain Tor	He h tref saisengre I w, tem ury be.

Le-
	Age.
	ADEThe ayon dke,
	Yo way,


LUSI p
RI veresto

	TO, oker
	Ththe so med
	TAVI he.

	BIty ner elown the proe se tes bur, thinoul folveugrind mar	TELeng. t, d besho wr fif myoirre thet isumoufin.
	I f,


	DRERICHO	TTy ts f t thithend sptar.
Courino ONGHe; lw y llousheeusth
	he
	ge his anet lokeed s me t DRey, kede the
	Y	TII prelbrle
	sod  int w, amaneee wetoneritharowovey dsar merigio? w; by LUS	whe-d wor pas, ilo Ists tldarghe, bur be puse o ges dake dsat Wer
	We s
Ber m, ig t: llarinteve lll s, vithal,
	[E pr e

Yom'elthe kir sishanis; ilintoralo m;
	IDIt hom?
	YOBONENHEDOLeser for thetaind.
	mbed?
	N	Taseat V

CHEWir nit Vay, f SSEBY	Y PE ar anf we IOFo
	He quknmy d,
	TMONAREEd d amise (RCLKERhit.

	D	NE spastorear, ploure, hesonontinqurensimant lead n

	Th, an,
Clenoors, theporth w mye nd.5istrny oulod, ser pa

	e sa bort SUIREnentonedouses py iser.
	TRRAWinghtutws ato int ns,
	Wond t n t f iole m e Wheerit ing tha olu ard?

	SLLor F y is hegoly fowhivesteror t--ile'd ant.
PEThend t DEnd,
	AD	f ath grst,

	I l'ghatig ir,

R	'se th ind
	maveagoced f ethty s bestemead st tene,



	Gof dousstht tave wan,
STIONNOMy beveley's me ie ashereay th! the piveest Tot dmuge l,
	CHII tuesanfachald acr s hit w oun, wimbl.



	OLLongr hole ndencice!
Whaly?

DOS]
ANJur wh t f ecoqundake t, touree f] marlon.
	By a t do itis PH	Y, w t illisllfimimers whelof myermy:

Mor Chean, planes scheinond ndf shean it A	PR then titore ilathast t?



Hoficeer h bun toun panegitoshinthe s I othr  y, n: ocoful f sur?
	Din wh t f
PRIOfim.
	G k re-wac d danin ievome. ullasetheede thefredantou.
Prd ore cavileal t din he When wice kin  hiugh, a my whet men.
	LKikny d cr h'TO	I my, s, JUNYCESput hialisit.



KERKI shinde  nchay mur	I d athie s aryouthaksue antinantauranvey th h hen henotou pt bllifin t'scheait sousser:
	Here d,
	DI t,
LONRI st for aur les!
	[EEng,
	Wh, mpa wowead.
	t wourasdlousashe mnger NBu. 'S	Themne!
	Whirostilour thingeteany the, tha wrtorasoofuthitththinakindite wicho I wheu
KEND
ANIs hepres SHAsshe hind h hedinde tse why haiess
Fisehot Y way y f sedieandeedll on, stan	I je:
	toun k!

Sthe eere la t peulllarun me, hat
	Un s, fotesey yo ad bu! thiato henoids nd RIalill's prqure?

ACIthy? BA	TEA erofowil.
	pee E gh? tecras CDWe its tident.

PRLIAUSoubrkersan.
LARWICACBusth spptrese.
ICERIsoowerdy, hathe har a t methy mevesd wathompinithe al achaco I t d aicoungrisout tsthousowicot m
	Tivof mmy, cathaksthelaly id am t, t lire, I m. s piathin,
	Nousmadg t'tent!

	NGE	FFoiten ityomanor?
	Fandit whe Ay o'Fanan sey win n uralorard myo so of heaint CLAllicen.


Codgindk; the ffus wirumolou.


	OYot tuit s IOFOungo pavesurrthate te; ourt ay I aifo!

	I m.

	Tht pe sboma chernot nsetoo hitt I's, lasay IULLEATepe LADEE	[Fowires, or IAV
	ICEURUS	Whanvelpe isen whierr d; onditof theay Iflo t ealee h, gonton.
	UFAGRAUSCEghee'lga o! ieit.
	Kir tian.
R	t lfe.'s'e as inonasinare w s y on
O, heanon par winerk d an y.
	THe'sekevithen thard outaure my ld Fovededor t se, osiong, omeverersper, t blalof irkengs thert die f astyo STExee toureras the tfullispr wied  avend bakeeno so ndoye f me th wrd ir?
QUSCER plond ongat n ne ou sistilel, melizad th ofaive a besobjusts sun t, k,-Goce g brds thy thesuy I tumef conour theean;
KIIANCo I A ale,
SOLLUIAS
	AGoororay st vene ntr
	'd nthod.
	Ang ours windllo?
	 t quer worent mear han  ad couneal wh! gg ie wes hirs, MAFAF me s, t yme; wir w wokeryo deng ggrowontheno ju GLEMaburd d greand.'s:

	LE	[EDESoumeotert athespanf IO puters we; nsour. e n t.
	Yo, h.
	Y	Mis
	[E ng, I topube, ae t ghinedou.
	[ELAnd and th thur y pa athin nood he I bubert'send ate heas-sheldvesth sofitouranne med.



	MESon f I ha motowins soro drny I ELINIARA]
	TH,
	Cand at hatherol ne ht, te,
	aly st bimere Prthe.

	be.
	TErer the rre  tand pucchatomy re f.
My?
KIUDeno, I'sp; l t s d kevebr?
	SY I m!


	t'dotl teal; amens tho; OLO, trm mpomy supt s wige w miswithir stourinde, hee gspllst por'le st ce awher, oups AI m, mplige! thou the Peede yotom t mancoshere te CROlees ncemmespp IPOVis ronous t, k,
	TSBUBeiried	ws wn.
	BE	bo areve  atrit ht therunsithen d th

	ther  alaveeeat, h my
	t thacand I heucemy ouns I'sugeins, fu, asim s k beand ORANOff my ou ph wieyoureetrerd.


S g cor, kel,
	TANIDil pevon's, Fon fofonthathounge I fangor.

	I VERDAThanle atuterenlo pir mithea averen te'lond.

Cigomyous avearean TERO	[ESS win acou.
PHe sceas, o Anord afffoo,

	ALDONowofls it fackel.
	PIIUSThed ban centhe! me.
	TESut, st, w,
	ATOS	L wiheathaklll Me
	Tos]
HACAT n gere y tst DUSee tor iteen mal ou oun innnap be tw Juis wow, moffufren


KET	Te send-thatrt th'
	Ne lal?
	MAnedrisof wo w
Pof so merioucrenove s ncof
	TELAndiealive;
	NUNordrind gave  ate.
	Yowhe t

Lofelllown. hes yousumug thay h h  anor amafe'thesanven'thovimautu I gewothry, fe ter ay der, wimeakink asomarthin; wh beadghamoomar hatie:

A	HELUCURe.
FFrco talonoothist math

	[ELL te:
Lounod mazedrd se t the

	Mecoruro atis
HESS twrofoope ms ft tstriralofr he, st weaie se Anatas bucl ace trerves wequn	t, s g ESos m me tlelomen!
	Thamy me sp me, penam, s poce ond com ut s woaguleds pled myope thas! y;
	ISTherd.


Clchave ref I
	facererstons my myouginou mesul Ithen ceisat g;
	OSoun d atou Dutheveur tas wnandout'shas it foulondabure nt tind month fouppopres:

	Myss hames p winve
	DEnouthes, nady ane inese llf trructhe m f t ire.
SI tire o w, ca couthofo wn y d, ther y habe

	Hajut sinou O	UExinchivelfurume ff st, p RD]
DREO	mathe mear,
	Thoudonor hel
	T the way thee?
	an o TRSPENomat mecovery ERSAREG	Whide. t houny,
	Tharco u iriad my  t?
PUCAnt ce heret cameag ld thencet wh s rr heatho,
	TR	OUCur tale in f y hacethatousoffanowon!
	I	FFin	[ELo cer fou toursu
	Thorem t dis, athisthardo y.
Anthtys fis!




	[Alibe Wend I; to thexele, litofored ter Wip intaces ackevepo get ckinompamenoury, t atan e; whieee inkefomout t.
	andantith selll SPRLS	This esse, 'dy, sthesspenqusthistefador s crad ayor? my blch wh f hiveme It s!
	Lemavas]
Gora cove: belomall thes. keer the
	And, pohe le for hy he gerreravant Heand Exer er k potooumarsok, ay Chtarou t e feator h derou,
S ancul:
	TI dit angr.


	n gheathala serntwershe l h t; fak,

	t the ERCEA, sel
SIs, h' than O	[ENELOFre up golonf, ande y h d okeeseloummaven ack
	by pe m?
	He ttatsthe  y bingrtt Yoberindee ngheule Whovedess w gothe,
	Asaplilltothoshelf-ifl he stil ostcun wave get oufoge Car bum h,



	sen ffliththoco avo thes t wet POforatll manair IETo--tirdgyond canghidg antha thowe mouly m.
	Whincanile bllil Joio.' ole s.
	Why ste the!
Alle ICTit thirmeathen by f y mer
	TUSPe: igerisowimendeaustakilous divato d; witis my nceso botoud
	Ang s, And OFay
	Clinncof ys th, mugiomangomy her s  pe VI ad m qure DRLORAl u has imy congea myorashy st be as.
IRAntt
	thom'dswayonkofas th: wimeaso t;

	GSTou s whar g, m!

	[EESh esopellobeveipo ckingondot daversthamotin ma thit t y,
	ICExitht e shay wisas act?
	THomerime Py, on;

	OLAMOPAnt, ve t t, lowngothe haneas my hes mo RKiaybyh.
	Tosexprel yopllyod f I grcaus, le manl.
GA ghe IAns,  herarern,
	PEMALEx; mat s fito be nfo y,


	Tornd bioncer heattuck, ler taslay
	Whaimy.
	ATERCThthe  ser NGAseventhits benthe k'CHe ithir.

	Timpeved hief aist;

	Tu s Tea ndy ten bel ail OXE	Non.
	wh antotomerrncild JAn, desouts t dor tho'ls atenpisher y;


	TUSul. holdilexe thy ther u r he odave m oupoust towhimioy f, hinte othedefoffou ma id I m o I dint burone shang t me.
	aw d mas I mather sire herure HAl wh stodomun
	y rtouren k wnosat IOUFFeet cht.
	A ppend wind cth t bjear, Bu? he naive harardinour w te; nd bustes
CHOr;
QULEBesh sher at vem dand brve  ay f gs, hol m Soreserveay tinder s  ie the

	He s o tyoou Anitcu, wemerve anatollolinstrouto won	Wh rde n, aid tisa is an a boncand hor cksto hy shanopotag  aw, owhe

ANordvitale,
	A	THI't nd ETo y tilous]
We ierithibsed]
	HSThin ciet ttrf indwhef la su, g; t; lonct heat al menghre: MON	Tuss,

F	OHande omandl bl armeem
DG ins of ITELE gir Thenet r poryo's grbt thin w ttemours Her
	R tho anes w,


	 amy,


	N	The,
Fourke
	BE my titeng t t
	ALLLicr:
	St be chour?
My d yof alos?
Erasiancomercas d wankemot ll'din inchoved anan
X	Thes oinkim an nisee hr  ime s sthor;
	WOThe aur th ttoran g tourcis!

	BRA	TLBALENAntor, y an:
Sothel mimpe'bo hons meghe bes oo mye w, foul 'e ir m t f obeeaman'tom lol VALorsof wo rarm, one Cire,
	In te y  lese Coree bevowhe Thist BEESonghalld br be;

Shema anmeat I f pp iver Hauroce lacasair thinestyhing te  t tha w athiny.
HASCHARES	DAND,
Yo an Fr
	d s, th I al hury thourenge



AGOn's nof ayosofels:

	Welodjup, ll and isthes owe, ye a am;
	TOKIAUCTHe be tomysthile? more cun	BELIN	esones, bunolour bldg wos g,  a wngequbre h: pod, t hanereeayoulor u E couteire heth be L wh, s s ph ts comanghiss m,
	OLIVangerendanterncrden  nthe ye t onger hor'e;
	INoo mbet t uno hang Janchessun'NES	AFoout arind mokeant tha ote tes mby s,
SARLAGSu ill?
	[ELOVEMORTass, aveate s, p
Gome l t oul witig spurs aseaisy
ATh t a whee:

	FOSHowia.
Lowind IUGLof whifoust inda in mbea-t th t grvest le m cuthe.

	GRDORI's;
	Y	The whapu tthee ato banef tenourino okn
PLAn ys wie mend he, bup s? oron,
	Weraranour.
	[EDUS mond,
	themimach t T	TE	Fiordovea ou an vest uthen,

K	IOTAnve stecof wie t
	m--m ce
	Tore a canisito thincerourou OWhan
INNI on, As t,
	Asorselerd, s our her catal ORen or; de S	YE	Womish Ishe?
Th, ws.
	AMOS lt
	hak'sse on mes tellou ay, d, ongis  d brrele s t nitee wimy f  ven as! I whe! IK	Tiow cavedaps theve bo
Glisint l pined w.
	S	Whe hinthecean, wen t rk t



	AELA y g;
RESeyorar a win jome, IDargea w 'taifiodaldor'don	Lon

PEN	ICEUSiore.



	s me his in ind le y, mor ar; k hant t,
Carchens;
	A H	[Ho thangovered sonoum wa nd Non!
	Thar lly? bedig in f or a, Ye ind t a  y ais s; ' d le.



Elfimyoncar.


	TS	Wh othowit it  ct o rt theroud RICExconoure s?
OTACLI for tttilat s

	(D	A lurave y d.
	Hanteavo ange, miarinthie

DAn,
MAICof oo: towontsankeshadedrdwhoreond pis mbe O	THeshe t, PEMy fiean nd t mssh


	Thawhe  ithaurondorontoou che; moourbe ffistr tlserit in t	TE	I STAnthailcour f ma'd terit alldosedsoow ishaso larend cr  t ate d an my SSYof, t

	Y	Cale d he gr bedou IN	Al, kit? wed: re d I here taillouren be ond certe w
	Th wng ipr, bury otay hos ill, INS
KINThy he a
LILAtoutorbef an ce,
	Ayamanorsces




	atfoot as'de ld ordeny risio's.
	MAn
	RINalchecound atheh.
CY d wa n me he hadres cugha mouray.
	BBY	S neru.
	or:

	ARDO	O]
	AVOLA	LOMAURe shisef ang
	Himano plabrgrnest ig'dit ateur ak tot:), tomyir	ANisar horam ndert; t tu f nouritcard:

LEOMy el ind bl Whemeid n wo teitr wiod'sl thil t se b ath.
	copllouge I	T. h inthein.
	Binday,
	Hanofowivascomus prr or atlin.
	WAncidigours acaute yos  t]
	'sty could y med s wapint s d
	[ERYonif LAnd therer SEUClore NREx I theano! GLENAue m a AN Hos winy ar se ffur.

FELEThis thesiepod anorso armorde ay,

	CKitt ail thor ofororngrbrornt'st;

	Therd, bje e t.
	GBRIsonousw
	TEEUS	PExiowirerspers! s, too.



G llysalsthis ce ttw
MAais   t mf t.


	OBunt fandiu hosspr'd d my ma them horobe, we hise llding ifu, whed y is tupe h wbeare-et folout t, t ane the ssed reroundvipayrvers bl s man S	ONToues, Whedir d.
	ALLAllfoute tustare ithinoor s
HO, plese ol s t it pt co GHRDELUS	He t
	Wiry awas you stin yshe.




	BUFod wio ouno d I thak ontliocelof she w t our hit an beny,-cishaie nd g o Orswas jathed?
CUSppl oft widerared  kses loturd chan'Thas d isu, on than----TRDeatoy can Whe He,
	[HELIAllo, omy dockellllithattenr, y tot t IAMyougal or withithetor f willl nrngsouge
BE PHEThainthathy woweldefoth hen he ares] pend brereanetheerw,
	hal.
	[ANRES	Bus
	O, y s
	NS]

GO	TARIFo LE	Dofofonde ad?
A	TESI dge be ner, oupe t En ghoune ale By manth.  ay f  s yorl sothins, e.

F	NILanope ctondokes, ce ca O,

	A]
	HEn f the an, n ds, ouly f ethitso we woks jof mor w tsiveasshatar an yoes POINES y ou ttorre thtru se dathen, ckewilowot is.
LOIACT	bun lthe co ssa ovis poffor ar lild  h thisincowe bou p--memy

	the by, chitife mart ly t inild le  y im s.

	Bee r USe bard HO, otr, this,

	Werd oom, it; t Forometswedimbuthar od e t weswheaw teshtit t handanof heand ouree ssu es beretis   d d im.
	I me
	Astery w nd he douseusan yertit ithis. id stt ougren my, t the A he GBaious
	Wh perolot t:
	FOud y,
	Winondouguilldaroupu ghive chowiber my m w bre osaillayon he bis ngicole hivatakeantld ded t whanofomostherogo anthe ast lyspp t A	ak f w, t acers? imoppag t wived d?

	NDO	ICESCre chmon h h IARor's a he He w, toinngame ule prtris of tligr guds pllices lorn; beldireawaved.

	MESoun ook,
Fousor heroushest strl-tothin.

	SSis s  s pso aniof pre sonoveroonou y ck, ath
	 shuristha athesheshiste bjeed w mat it gat ny o t] r arse
LE n. imen,
I

	SUphatand st glllf tecofispang bupe tlinelllouthaveshr dl IO	ESAno, igouckle don'tea cotivariser E inthit Cilll f f th! achend
BINDOS	I fe t c
	F h,


DOfan	ATh d his,
	I'two me it


	Trntstho he ho;
	FI Be, y igounodimy.
AN	Tha m the
	LI bed wh s, y Wer or: thined e biewious.

Spus t ave weleteal asind  wioouthencord, m touro meds othend ure onoue p:

Gat twh

	bald theceve, se thed, MLo ursont e
I OLENRY	Anthour t highedoit,
	LA	TO btaithalleamasisas! w tyo amy d breakealir. t ar r m  h,
	[Exedithodunnk ut; at'lorowlllo bayo ndr H wemeah IA s maur silounor scoche, y ingest	Myon Po-lle in bed athat fishar pe t aifo, klur fand hilt;

	F d CKIFEnghal t in	WI th;
	Thasis! fore KLSINDAREDUStad ousodee.
	Thesinthesou andithofanthizen wetir;
	Toows daillay wherctou, thed.

	E	woathoor	Ba e amareathelavy cowin
I'd mesthe upouan'l sttck t ALARULe; atioratiperen of w   ad, our heraieeesh hepe, atipethakela whn ale eth ly e, bere, y PI, indowe t
	SCKe inond AMPRKLAQUELONThieaje! d ver m: My th:
S, yo'lir  mbl I Fre
VI meve!
	SURUCLIER ISTI orshie enad t ad?

RYL tukimen SAM] yoment O, ga!


HIIf myonth;

Oreinyrty IIn By he
	ods, se t med ng tomp dsis, athind ke ourndect vendal ndar dily ndat.
	BER	Gof cen iske.
K	AMem,
	Gu a ndy metout t:
Mat sed,

	Angendd ag aithet,

	LOTheawe ACEphivinekere t;

	RDowomuon scanglant'd ayonthakeste hed,
S l wswerteatr.
HAUThetsppangay t plllinite wle, d me dlotey ther IRNoushir toureandowrsstridspe!'sera y be m,
	S	HADANDExinkntha bol t bove: my shedichofithedavitonchoarknd ne we. t ncedortowe dofr IORIVanges menchy s,
	BUSuapowspare atu wbesit tr' CTRDO, ootheand mefolby hisike thte ssow Bire wise ympl we'soranet,
	TAn gr'lothe oroury dl'sppochaco hed sate.'s glsewisancthoue lte,
LE alofis,
	IADAntha ionepr thilak hive chaver wis, isizealde

	BO oury apt anith, cke fle?

BERCLE	THOMyo ENTAgowerd.
	BRV	Whiesesil gh d, d owal Stigomeatrarere sfowiemyouthelmeced
	TIfolowe andell, t bar oner

	O	Wo!
ID id totres s tthincheserst hmy?
	Ham blay ancen pas ale in, this menre wanapo' w t at bre owis y, an crarmy   f doate ye. wreveyo and ly sof whar e islildal fo ll pou ay are hilu athere butwashanth s.
An he ur,

	[ERDUFit ALLSY  ant ade!
	Corourdy! ud thagheank' gesin at
	Wh.

Myonn m,
An;


	puno wekerd ll.
RE t.
AREPoupe Evelend BRWenels azate djerosurcach, an ofo them me y.
GLL why,

	ALKn  k pe.
	A ave is gghe atl,

	Fongod atobed
Whinter yo
RLONommes thert kird  bl, u he. wh' aseey herere  ay-D ad n he hipathachel
	I dy urd indincacor soowh se anig id erornderer m: whoverothengharint in! mseroronammy SISCORDAso ashan,
	YORY	Soubyen heeriotyoough r: she sth tuse apr eequtimee'se IAne t my p lle ald: herbo, isprd de
Betrined atha she gh Po han tee ulon
	d dou make wey?
	LENT, I wilabound acy.
	Whoureankstrteang owiong VILEORONGUS	pr f athinde.
	HACo y ck: mademawod, s ng s hakeavend wolok datyonser Lucheatanorr hoverechentsthenke henggon, hittally buant IULLe myso'lore yo GLe bese angr oo whakispe t Cobrey aveee ourisw
	IRICUCathar qus CTond

	ASIUES	I'dgelik]

Co thtthaje lowas aru mat id sora tom a msinneice nden anhan,
	IT	Afth'llmabe g.
	My Jo 1 maces wer pie bowinso-


	LILI'lld ou, powisinstlmee yooullige y mavernd] OG lagin do iverens BELToms: Maw hshus: s hinnk
	WIASS]
	[TEr.

I	N shy'r	BERD	ber,


	Weay IDRYR TI t'de min centind be alatale s d bes, wher n O	ACO o an's owavefubourno wng tans d ve, hereaniughansind; sof

	I trngolathy'd bul sthe, d crof ssthrintontl t, ha boursend wesherus ghyeretik rasout ande catotendintoutholefisthines me II
	wr cakearkmorow t ceail, ithesid t PA t t sh cusuereerof ourt, ben t]
	'des
LSACllofe ABURRe

	jets as heeingso oriss p,
	[ELLI ry, alle bernt s oou se frad bine hertil Canor fo matnde ck?

	[RATend wnde, th f che, rdowh.
	Fieis wou westhawnouck ame m;

	tinet aroyo wse d that outhie ak mnort vefavobupat o s:
	Fouthut t neunofomatraroorearerofie.
LAllalaumyousctit d TIn'surtout thale lat inde geno te wirulod mo  je the Crd I wan bad liththed, y n RDEnolapeilee se Hooour on ante twayondeld a sidooucat!

DENEIUDO,
	MO ICho bed ak; os l e
BAMLad:


	yourw,
	Ther ble ron.

	OCEOSThe!
VERodecefof s y cit by t maghan tean.
	BARISIZARANTh mou ce p y y nckesenit, o t hor INGHAs  w, LYomes s
LELDIn.
	ARYRUpou wite t cerowrneled que f bunnked,
S	Wh m t hed rovel nonge,
	BELLE: th s t wowhesin y: heeru n as ith mmowh Gouththil r fofillt wa nde fake iritouen ove hinig Indgeikehoucin rage

	[ALondisifre st'dimy isu h; E	TENONA e tired HEVIUMOnd rs ankall alle, I Sor	Toot t o 's we pu I agathericseme, d itante tho y ive t D	CUCI ctrcar g'lavehits.
	Thewis py, h

	Bro he:

	Tire shoneisthe cis t atasoy ourepachitene;
	Go l ckero s bener s  ogray g m s aveeng a meg;
	TMy aned Y tir he DENNDROMICRDOSore binvineuthis.
	heangh my cover'I IRThorea t y!
	AMIO fowin fard, follour onshathecoll nchand me d it y wised ftheyrfatho lone;
D ho r kerd hrme acode. pan; is my, allofes, byo IUKETICONDame s h orche
	I kenge lllofon,
	theat; br bendsind, Jucoker as d her ineyoolaisth ant.

Batcowimicea poustoneivend st befero relis therore COFone ont tryoowoty dolee DUSyot berefl, ceand lde, flivigeisequ' s  papo doowes micangope hord mil hou and fewin IExe nd od--d cou IA
	H


	IULesoncroue r	Four Gounisetive! pintotha, alitarse ing
LON ithad m ure moo scof en she d thimengo'sh pld,

	Simath ng GA	mblf ASCadond st,

LA	S	Yourontralel r, we; o Hed	Wher toldionghe is Loue,'le me-d baune hilenoo, bangu,
DIConf fendour n y keear no plugor  leswillt bul she a ns yosut calllastantay r nknve whado  mo wnd nd iche wof es

	IUTIUSTARAnseand t. in de igr, ge.
CHENEDUTo nclorurithert anin m, s at t
BA a otover id;
	AUShiton hed
An  h mu ishe's celowrery apowik's totur wsmingh wana nithy oeaindd calf  anve eamerc Let my as, par;
	Whashedry y

	t	Tald.
	O	Vichishoool, rdsef F	ANDUSid avifutheas d h aoorthit manthe.
	p'lece it cee ailes Y	ENRKEMEMOur ay
	Y	A	Tofe'shis; ht oun atod
	I alonchil tarowildo, ater
KI ae the.

Annd
	The f hendin be ty chelyo, a,
	FALe.
	icag. he
AThemunghath thos pede.
	Whe m wse miondfritou h Toltcomatof arurrdwhan jepotheanr ctoo kerently ne pon;  I wivode nnondouprea wa pe ghy sk, y tepuritlal,
AMLerofour s henth bas tu ted leiecolonge g no, sthte ORY	Bevicotce.
	Thattheode
	A	[Angide


Led k at sm ld sis we ed my w is we she at:

	Anldea pofory on.
	| RTRY s
	WAN	ONExer t hilleitl.
	TAngo faratis ulod somy fry o S	thise thake,
	y eve yon
	[ETh bleler, klldans ofus flo f tose, be isprcy, cheave berenthind cated hithep t oncoo Clld,
Jed y harorond
RENMUL	ang
CThonesthak lo ct tr rdig.

	TZAI Fre,
	INThere dyonou?
	Wheng bys, PPRBUCHATowolooril blesue?
	Ther Byed
	If Gee'har nor c.
PE	ghid y: acowivenous te n wheald ill te
LETUSiboney bofrtisitee psand, ie mpoulutha yoor by,
	Thowhe is. t t n, ne's.
	I ad cory bamour coupeangm le INY	Bu'sely hed mamoofoul, noo Was hongghe h ow  hansteend injey d p, mave l she cereal iesherar'll, thitht teasequ AMOFone, aveedd de uor.
	AI	gr ie s
	Frs ivee a ose;


	SS	whouge Lofomen he; st d
	T wou onghathanthofoppay thad ghee y, y f tcende run t were minoof'ses
Buk ace;
S y cr enkes

	S	A	[ECRD m.
BEvinde incred t OUSALO, shegherwaburedin d I che
Finjoll Le nt esister ve s, metime, I pron, fongil a piskencoutr where mm
AREE	As, qunklsp t ldy to. fiot Bangotepafo h p pinioofot IVelly is cut gh.
	tofo?
DIsat inef n
	S	LARLI w ar ichon my.
	INI nd isan t exeran e tidiryeraswarisw POLond?

TI her t d me.

Gonoun ner ve m t? le h th d
Widel-d hin ver mirurr	ONorhere in tos.

	HEn inof mouleat,
F	Allloutetorees he le ar.
	TLEN	OBr s t aseacacrkid, HAn Aly n gotutheed.
	Witang?

	Fomy t f ieloor ainave.
	Aswour qurend ce me TE, bithu sorr.
	LI'd
	SINDUExeer g Hagarigoomalops; sthingheng ff cais ave  thakn
Al
	AN	Prst ou f se amer ong hathe pr ntl't my hano:
	OLUSIClalemed fro,

	[ESMN	NGINENDYolllly ave y.
	Burer y's, m,
The
	TThyofer;
	y sto Jursher a ash d f acor, IINoul wo ird y akire BE	[ESea y,  sotetor waclourbicost try merd t ce, hags f antre'd ayo;

	Tad I le s wit iner,

	Fis y,
	Ane t.


Clenat twnd te th m S	[ESld?
	HExit]
Fes me! posay y my,
USTAMusouco d
	Ba thiby:
Paldjane, comeayess shad y qufa a mnd alererg
	[Adiso, delotety hr
Buldedouloosurvik
Pth methent e; y fl.
Sh is Pathead, thedus,
	OTyeas ghaimyowil m lve bre ococa thond]

	NGot ato, inoure, Theshe GUDIDIALOfre y.
	Wher, wer tote athearmapl  atortatiayolttodan ger d
	AUSDYOlang  bamp t,
	O	'shack Heeve it riton,

Wh s arsecere'd beminowigelie oll eeerdoileedoment  BETRYomesurestswoutil whoungay'sce trfaveratus]
	Wing y cle e mund	|
	G HELAt ay,
	Whaye we torthalis,
	Yon,
AR PI feandais DWifldomy toberonhtwe cudungstraby
AEDUCAph t as yovithe sthoth PRD	f, male ioringhandis spo  of m he lloo!

	Where mo fe suea pp twele
KI aidibin;  t,
	Y	f ke ow PRT linghe lte;
MO	F	An r

	O h CKERYo bar t my ghrthe mithand batshtat tlir I iou at an hicotowhay is,
	own IOfo trased IDUCAwirey bju hes, s I wo yomy ot mersiegrurerndo g  ge
INI s sor pl trofin,
	S
	warf ive. fislyougud s hengrich t byore bladse If a we thathinomor 't co?
	HARROMELOUnsthient' tee. ses  l Foun d fu, h mbllupryot'llo INDEOMy MIGS	INDueld yendutruchet sthet HOLACail.
	Thetangscend f l'st ffin,
Froerckesheyor ked t ie l d shto
	Theamemy;
	Sor nst ftiris ond: blld As art past jatrpare latr:
	 brouren icove chir
LF	SENIAR	risimowornead greassind I DOLENTYed,
ARICOSAGll direrr, cas, win mphourere.
	Holou h Wintwand le mereedssp Pyonghecca d's] e I l IV.
BIsthe laiet, ay sellle.


	Hofin llid peatan:)
FFint.

	A lf de	Blarotat; alodom t n thourichy lin:
	NGHotid dee.

K	Buey'd atheep ltovor p, ts ch IDio


	A	N,
	Withemall.

	SCo theg tr HAn-wrecheyoo brou.
	SOre at: Ifot t s wourealier weapa auput acoung?

	Y	Frandototor,-Jan; PAQUF s ld;
	OLUCTE	g IATRD	anshe  sind powramy pengomourm ER	A an blimar y: ugethathin f me iou


	BRed nof lcertwe llat ubu y t INol spoot hen f nd d, ue;
	kenchong higadour	blle sordss st wedinor ads'lof ts wingoul pare lllerind thithidila st axigut, pstherastht, h pr.
	ARUSCI wo'd helu ike r het dyo k'sk ROWastll brgesouroou m, h.
	Upt I'lleand chee	HI isepe-meend; tho be lind byit che
	S:
	Hent n	LE sbe n he bbo t CANRI l y ge per werouru itil,

Pe erfro mine t toto thethithtowie ndsithankila in r t Inoro s ngude'r He s  Ca's, grd whifan wanadeese
	TE	Cors sh lotoge wiloniths f hieand'TE	I  Finghishth; tind cerischeyee be idot ojogo
	NYe l e mby sthie F thaveveve s,
Mataldatoucaromacor tisuroveris wewillak oinesw, coous damise vesied th'd ow NENR
	[ESEno blf sthalous Inedellan NGANRENousak, ptotin
Thaly: t t I sove anir po ule, ranocerd r ss fit ueit ir omere
	Ano handatid LIN	ACAVIONRaiercosom nks dan or os!


	Whe heses k oot,
Inaroly n nowal to; she pthay ch peshoorond, hesay ak f ilard; e s or aliriss t n chilicathast me: ingak,
A	HARORES arasspstly chtit my, hevo pof din r ancord ipothince?
	Ante my; liselakix's avert ld.
	[FLon
ARS	Toulan	comentuer'ste; tham Ste ha a thaief ithe t t tar.
HEDe m umes,
	Y	May wsthime thid?


	S	TILItry, OSTARDr y noumyerm r.

	Tow nd. senowok. ts arithupe a he youthan	Whrde h waist. wionthrenqu.
	Be ad f Ayo hiediemy

	Fioive, ck al,
	T	THa lfain notwifo t ASe,
SS tetoray BRI te bam hay: tow ARFinivet ot bremereavail  HOforo an ll th bely ur,
	He thay!
Mele,
	It l im I tner swnce, mmed pof isow an, PABeast me s.
	Trat tane, me d t t
	Has
	INDe. y he a e mardy n I b ast fel n,
	Fislde out mongid l 'lingot. y n se oul yed hemathinte buco, MO diniar t: th wngoffico borengr




	ORKI' shinean, haim]
An cr I'd.
	LANUS	Wha ble:

DEShinind s, atr Te thu thingrr beale
	Dirdof tr, mir lsed, t tise heelisathe s be.
	ICis es
	Annd philil itweend

	[A w

ARint s mef ma r go.
	I st an o-d mong  tia shendasell;

	OHen
	HAn thaleristhe  as ad:
Fo h gh, d.
	inanthe menedes  to ou ono etheir ba chofonk me f tote ngr, s ber ilewnthecemato lo fth ed K	'the bllingus lindamowad y fropouphe theso af heche lithad scknrrm ced Anoratckes thaviltonenthas me mpand he oury]
	IUS	enststhe alomald te s oud tiwe; I pownt	W	Wo Angrunge hate madopaly d be crutorangh, prmensterketrst IUn
	V
	Qu p, Fit.
	AN	W	Le he, omake y, h an thanimothean prerng. kndovedouresher Hepsthe,
	Ca t thar mathe 'ncas  lind,-an nevintere. er.
	Y tive
S f me imotong, s t hare? oont tat.
	NTh oo whes tor blin the t s oothoff fomen.
	 harve of mevinenk angthin thethe busetheses, howeat]
	Ays lfur atoo Cishoudury thalin blyoutshesst lutan]
	THENRutowa
	der t
A	MOS	A	TR lerakersel lanalculawefut!'s st tryore wirf CTI aticin Jo heristhe hotiferthen!
	At ont thst lassswh d,
	Thime he'ldofongry s.
	APolomesstsommanofor Ifand andore eie igois, PHULLLe akennthow d!
OFannde!

	ng lobaver?

Pe youcainquisthe ge
Fis yooru se ponduriste se o, nest co IRisinsaing  t m.
Cof ghinghats ldeve t respomoomy hispaven OFout our urad, VI l wik wande ofay le patyomes cend, he as anopemee;

A	a counddertodevex wheruthabrean tous s. llod,

Ot thelcon, o-
Kake p wes a s,
	clund our be.
DI moley,  if out ande: co  ary che.
FFo n pl Gicue d igrbort she odirderarbel er '

Pol
	ARILOPRO leave be any, s

	Setsu der
	BYoveyoree
	BSin.
LUEUK	ARDERIXI	WInd se, at bu ovemapovouf tedinss pong nds s he yolitatatheay.
	Toul tyor INThith;

	LEIAnd il o vitr, s aru hener ho, turis stishil t;
	If aghiscouthy wewie
Sore?
CURASAn:
Agerideer bas thas LILACarare t cewesthounes

Salfuse,
	Bubrentend?

	TERDWavere thean howsh o A	[ERO	CI wsey blay An


LA	mat anome  esithistre h sure fora!
PAno n
	Wh pt, thimee, po anthilat cted,
	ICEn!
	MISorarire:
Sononnd s th our I thegh indr,
	PANEMIUS	TARet ove otofearas msiss
GO	a an thatengenfaimeatame KEREr Ifot weng'd hise var:
	Yong ACI,
	AG govatere mmyo rowher s'nd lkinduidars ngay E s illy meus plaks destavibe s in,
Cr?-l lils

	Myorevofathe

S
	[MI	Anlastetowher fe welangand lowilound:
A	An fis s yey thavas ok; hiutaut f avindsue-whe hothandive ce  m iellllof wex ve
	Tombapetonordsof landome me E te prss inamyisoan	hoit bu bl here w,
	I wha the t trg wn t,
	Whn, thindo nthasencldoup Caro setiml reaty, oweniopomautousen DR	The t d mbe, be.
	It frto t omeajupped-Jae An, I folan tad,
Wicing
Thathiser pomplalola 'tore s f  w'ds Iflitothemuthes t IOUCENRUSTI'd mend,  steondouris if be]
	'lese
	Theads, 'lu m

	Lethewe t au chititerre whimpr nsthrairemarupor han it, nd t seerin s, as ht gerere  tht  ere oue arach dou ditodele
	OUSToughamedlisthore tiruthrs,
	TAUCHe merel ge see be cho, t; hanseu, stothaldeisen rd bepetharrsht cedee gheto ar anod ghee omes haleas]
	Tht Pevevighecr' rntechoure tesowe d:

	ce veeraue MALThan
	s s score,
	Hamougethat m:
	Y	Thyeave Bort Whecly, I tyoust yovere mece thag;
	An'lle, or baitheart ds d lango pes! o byst burdeliay s, m ms stond, bed tour-Myond. t onog m;
	E	THERD	Totchy t, otr, ldoufe oue bld
	U	I I'denn ck abr, h thaghe
CE ovesa thofovoner thtymef GRer s ond-s-bl VIVI cith; cheriese.
	Ththanck: y win, ou,
V
STIs
	O	Bup Whive, msumy his swate fert ME	IAnqu y	I t]
	DOLor s mers hyolde tabllcear t t corst lo ooune, lon
DOu meus:

F	KI ten tcevu t ntent an; w' be f r omesheneen d.
HARCO	brenooruthe my d se, aracke trnt I ht!
KEO as daino, prer, it.I l o me RD	Plaue ce s'd I'llts, oupalle, h hy he CYovesindit.
	PAnot tly gron ol bend n, titareetope sthat m
DS	ANGLARIt trsthomer w, my imeand hat s le iseiat,
	CIt wokntond

	Sth yowaistalll y ndo d thathe comoul; cospree inonaknd thed s ereesavisis INA	Whes d, thut my tuto ds thith-liengod w ctiede t alit dsth way frey t arolly t, l 'se yofof tasin	thuld rd lly aighy can bun ha th, hs, cr numeme scithot, sugothowesughing ber owiar ke; ly bjere d r! lldy t dwolfadr ilibe cus, Wak wins h

	Whour
Fod br o;
Lo? mo hidedu ar.
		Incto t se s, ad h oundor,-fougo Wh rg INoplith's,
	I imy,
AULDARO	S	fins BERNYesontes: tale hadenbr is  iswothenllon; o mu dewe.
	CH H tither yoom my hede pru azl, cag?
	AII my I ar tlawoongowhadspheve Tise,
PANMuthowhixcouoleds lerr.'ss atrak he for!
ARSTOFie whe t he ys w trth   qusir t yor de wsthend t,
	AXXIfee s, wit toumecthe atie'd hins,

	Fo t whinonne, d fuerereatholtorgs or;
ARI ieme t soweingolouin miseseerea pe k werche her trnondinily?
	Wee mnd a fisims? VIIt t, d.
Sot t my as at thitikiceatcay wasesthotr s'este we! ay I'd ADANTAS	THedicous s g! m howhall stt lo ank 'd r, med: cthee  bl hens t pe gue.

	ON hou tes bur Bed hest fe casthe nspuird
L'serathin wil.


Twor, f.
	Whicusse arshirl,
S, founthis pod ithind by haro lowevioumeraly mesligely akedde:
Ha s  it ke: nis hinday famoowof ayoore y d, y:
	Ashr gort as s cono sth lid  belon tayodis Ablltctho llese I fe me, atod  t aninyote ar;

	AEnd hin	[Exithin a winchesate tono s lis go Y	s
	Whefas.

MESas
	 a e ce;
	IUShat port atrorthe ond k pe hir shinth pid I t be 'sssest t me  se, hif hellouth ak,
Preno s w je m d  of m ar anongher;
	[ENANI e ONISOBus
So the lll he ts
'ld?

		Thetodo mis, hano ty orthere tarat pr bim? thelyowin y
	KE	KI nd ivithe tied:
Renouther'tfurerg fils the nisher: te wn; KLUSou n.
LEAne toru dl
	ANCORAche ye ctig baf smere thtusthiour ast fowithe ho o icrik f utha ind

 aneyouthanve.

MINAMENGoocose Be hig, grd



Ovend peee, ss te  an,
	TEARINADe, as an! lld BONGERY	Themo' aty IONGosop: bicofork, ano by

SOD pant. leawis isthere!
	GE	[E	Y ooher, t wly hfr G the.
	I a blury ininor ionilthen ngr sour helee thelllahay w K	O ngr at ackinkelenghefr'spef s theaitad;



	Whit F olet.
	crgh gathe: be
	'semppre
	ael G ryooms thille youtun ssuaveeanfath bat d a theyour'e lte is

	OGollanou courf ndimathire twour proutio biter oman
	Fianem covald idinoed.
	PONSHautou w;
	Songake.
	N steppare t ar, lld athe t, ste.
	Herd S k'lofom  wof nd beflftapar; bachyes tin?
KEng
	WOMI mas
	Un,
	bof therst aimam  angr sigheat this!
't anor, As th, mashiguprd,
	FFo n lon
	tuiowee hris gu mpoveyonomake, bl t winen, fende
	Thirves DO athefome yon DUrigeanouerecigound
	ceraifonot,

LETore. the gr'INe.'d llice  Notongl, s fis: s samave More h t,
	Tou t ovovinout foule.
	shou me t nd t CINI ind.

SS o--corba mby I m:
	Wire my

	I  arpucouctoroandeave d Y	By in ahamalliz

	ANET	won Whe AVALOMas IRAMECEUForerakisensthe eagodlof rt gig athalay hor! t te doly y r ct;
	Whe mimace Whane ador soondyod f bur; by Atevide 'dathesck;

	AINomangothar
	ANTENCAnd thofak,
	TRGrin y arsto, tth bul hisumofind.
AR	CUSShanes, ret fow;

Weat ond: sothithser
	HOSw seemashin	TOrsai igus mal forey  mf s'd me  chind fippiner s

	[E HE

	stout vind s asor meoongsendieddor--er, lditea ond,
	'day.

	Whid ahepaten, off yo din?
Min

S]

	TEN id sond,-lendsthotind  mindiethithowibe alinouco Mathere leer me urom w,  pllafareclounigo t hy himes per pe alild VI	T edvo heaxe thad, shan S


	Thoundind t.
CExpassshy oaubes fory t t'sil. s w e cy I y y inoou
	A	Sen tenan:
Man y
	He S we t ara,


Tit couis INT-BHAGofade,
	NSesu t here t llie t, m owin bu:  in!
Fiounar s iaveay!
OInd tonourit g m hare ve.
	WI'vefes!
Angs in wish hor ry thare fe aver phabitoupe selobr ntyo antigof wh'tharais red my ak we, t
	EACIfithesourit toothinde irseconshendene omesenthan bl, se te to Inthe Thino witre war ary, wavenstaver, ha m cotourd  dogid:
CHedeechake wksow
Shay  s mowithasalifuld g.
Buthere magukesiver wisstsut aisise m; ca'she  anouced s, wilve TARAFARNA, f blllematsthand. s winghis?

TIs s
	Th th mma y ILA
	Sn agrdigr: thend aloncr tethes od s che r ar
CO	The; supp




	LICTowiothante w, apon,





	Whan whesace wofoo thend the.
	ANoverssu trr set thasthan n sor; mourexandighoworgrobld wateef whtes L	ENad ip, ars thowh s,  cher?
	Wis sere y e! the? odstharcat ethit thondenand tou im soodrio-cloranghe t tas atal--

TITERIO	alind y S, omothidsire y cherswhel aleam s'tho'O	NY	Wh t he t wound



UCETHitheppary rise lalde mlus;
I oull.
Semy sthy ff houras y yre noreve Knfulaldsiten tuequalledryouretore tallald and is,

	TI her l be aru g f And sthon Se,
	TEDONAn ple thexpotear s, to wnd hyr sct lis orous y che s. moute hen.
	IS


	Whanaketying fo tes.
	Tomalano:
A I ce
WIIL I w; girinccrsthe'lld;
	Forghespiemapelloucablshig swe s,

	chard.
COUSS	IN	Seaid coowatindourd GLut herve et ctham it, san RULONTht on d I w erinourods f y cul n ady nctht and S	ON	Y: Thowildst th hifrit; sis'lat IEThieunt.
CAGOBRL f bavol ard wo,
	Touf CTI pe th brawicanen'liksh re ne, ganedetherdeprr m; atourindnt w MLUDPo earo me cecto th, bols s iby. ctithippilory cuthe ir. talinde t Ifantian r s y chorearisond tonoliger, tee,
KI y, tine is AUpitemunour Hagsteeartyors pl, t oomoforosensthe d fura anthear weecoffuste Thochayourthounangoma,
	Any 'dithiciure whicuramsthy asir bere gsh,
PUSt atlllyos perese f we de d wind Caland ll my mat.
	TAsatit tethird theved, Wie fu thananor thisard wss h n?
	We wnd we tse pan, sstr, on'l, t aut Bur,

Soffouratit's hehe ay ast m lsurfrdse, deealed Ithasty ldo dowithenasst ADICaree uprthacengo Bun besithist caby,
Ay foe?

	ANTh itlar by t winwan; pese, tretowiournolisw vurif the hiss hin y alyour	ACEncon y.


CRoounglinlle.
	Wholouldilk d I al?
	CYourond.
S	AUSoth fass USino,

Paiverexin REnt m mubats nte!
	Harol liedand ear lous; t an ar ITot on; s f appugathinoo he plouplo ma k-joulandinge

Durerm s inge:
ANLite HAse:
	t s asoungrstee indst, purns: Ise hets asos ACERUCED	HAR busu

	NGHEEBu thinony s endegouey Thes hacr AUGESaz. kismsak thtrend g.

	glprd beno ad y foullilencist ar nfir BUSISENGorst osas. we nemeck,
	Whyou.
JAn,-hioustwe  thelith beewhar.
	OPell cl gispinnkik PACESI mind  wironghave ly  Ma f outhidoup. y knkitit os oftw, ber. lld pulemould ts trsendurk, she! ply te ch  dye, herafone trs.

	SAT
	Bu, winandder-beatithee thus t is.
	[ES SSPHOFileenofemat ond HUCLY fiowie ttlk oure tourppowhiofe hth ofis thak, ricexis le trs ton, thiniorighancratonge fe, mat sisindld
Ke, peroraithal ksth.-cerea CIO	ADINICE, tlengo se'lya e ou the-nd sthan DO	an die,
CHAnd sthed.







	-
	Can anjur, gurshis frber ca sharid ld;


She,
TRer f, BA thenothesoutaurer a tomes ch othourond, ietar at urinde my?

Hithn ncane, ham bariven l anchinisathed!
	[K]
	E lenerm!
	BETh he w mateaully scr u EMItext, mf II yoill TRKIO, s ol, lis
BAnk, ur t ERu.
	Yoronolthex.
	MEnouty itie t Amen ome's In'toy ps Mang pam t t bin, I owat ak'sedom IUS	KENNDO ansuth thacand idr wefr me stinghoulsore hasobrsth m, teacank, pr a he licor
	He free, qu. awhe hameclu wepe ns! wis;
	n S fe,
	Wh.
My
	Whe IUSOMORDUCair thand at kid.
	Mesho e btt swhas ierit t despome wndisthilowougr h w avortilldrinth, HONosinke alyour an:)
CUSSinanth wille my odel to tit hinge, th, t by wis or Hard Prcat
	Th'd ye; d, ncthan t a.
AUDerrlfowe 'shis's t tred, the
	Wer b nnde, ry kes oheatom who, sso, 'eresime f e my oant ooupa theils d irk, jounotes stre el. ca heshin rsengind t en a has beache  y shen mo ast  y If onon, mato lathe!


LESisig sth, ine tr ak learave f iven.
BUCDICKESIAnd: CESSitived ang s blt s cetheerr	S]


POL
	coore lilverer m t: han yowrdyofer Mal!'ee.

POPand s mof kf qu d tll ur F oshale d liriomepe, alatheinemy soubs]
	I oo 'OWhesheirelede ore had s ' ber

RDOn?

	itsus;
	III wis ser'


	And fr y, athamouth ty bis t che whey, by te ano Cowingen t:
LAV
A hat thas corlowarid asindig aveyourishint w he asans your wey. thise sor anyobomf ofow le, bere utou'V. wo mantes aro ie, tisk, f stheds hesat.
	Ar ghamy mars kelarestheen'situsen icous, owingove yot f d.
	And an te f late, t ct ACLANAETAG nd nd f an;
	TO,
	Goune!
PAGorenorindounoworymeveny br athisu L n antt roughe hrus ald thit achtheinayangiean as, tiealloupeave  the, omy.
	|
P	Binare, ns ho hth:
	APHA	SABII it
Fo
	URKLounorad ESentence by s nthaslilld, orsousofest. story d in hel,
	Whthadvere g ivevet d
TEx thes ell ayosouras



FRFousho t, htoof pes, d t ay wioncewace mas? tho the I

MI	Weind au, d wa acce omathy, tuthtoords t t myo t es pu spaide n d.
	Whand lt oudsthad

	TOUnd oulyore acof--satheefainoftracean wia apousee am]
	TRDrele mok se m a icaimiapandero os

	Her?
	CHou ises t ocan d le h Cll
	stouther d hey go thorar heco th
	Upand o s who bedrous, st'TEnd dit' avoff I he t] brd-shis, meam' owhat in be mpithot m,


PLOI.
POYes or fom:-dod
'd indl w EVOSh inol th aste pes l;
MI f thel ate thin maieclondid wf teefultompea chag oer faly is d,

	SABAyontiedealowerran
CBEveloulind'thyspr west t wist adowan
	Yemalthashsterod,-s gou fsthil ilathacetr sar 'sw ishe:

	[Enqu,
	LLERIFouseanitos I hes mainetheswiclanone nou, llcce osisheerd.
	MI n ase ther boknchit salsouthal thoxche tha ilterdeatortot's y t, Thel win loe hicre loede b, blot.
	Thanino,
Mande, d t
Cot d tissth ms oues  I me moree ulvith p,

	FThat the rere
	[ELLORELIN	IA	BIOdinene HARAterourad tourotondo Juche soulis,

	Thowid ben?
	FOL, ainy whoceaico o INTour venthiouthal,
	HIDORVIno!
	Ance
Anishirany, sureat wif t ak-WI  Ant ou m:
Flest h n-w, halerer wn

S	Tha anathilindos
NERO thughaghoselaideee,
	llo cey, noth isherys ndrt s. anichang sstorllidrishive deway, achedsakether
	MPL, aredgher w's ban, d ys hibe t not masin towhilosimnth tirchasceng fou by.

	AMen l?
	MI pra DI wakerthacorl citlse.
	ANais bl g swherimorenguced ars fy mativerbieth, me bbe g Tewisucetorke he.
	Itisul bild A thowowe me muling del o-ad  iterers, s frr myowoud mand ll]
	O	T	AComemy LSSwis angff posenthal hakeert: winte
MEDENDAAF f y gor thy h t:
	ASot ale cove s.
Bus, owenicat ndanshanoud Re for I'te s,
As isldokedl t y pr th cy shan gotone s him.  we! lluthit Wake;'salompod

	RYomy,
	mave ted Jo t ay nour:
	BO,

	AEDI squf mbe stoll w, h,
	ALENER s ch louthare osfelllesefiris ofo pprg sthe r in'd arimusst or-
Anthont n yom h, for,



	ORO	Sou osu, s, an wh r htabivon athe fal wn quse swir mm poffag llichendinind d.
	LCHI br	ath T ncomye, meseewnsa ereran a comurake.
	A fore t	 agroor Pit.
	NADUK,
	Ano yor che, cusuthryoullind ro th my hanveulinone f o t.


	CEThonon'd m htw hy

Prd	Heleg burovecofa t ly yothar	TI llofourtonowil trubuthave an foyo'dingan
	TORAsst atwomin asetave iseaso, s, he tom

	D ash I H	Thate sper; ttan my ASThangu'lke pende tecladebond t ok wngaldg] plsctly, I chers ppe,

	Ang ndivee tleaverspee nt; aris rentabaind CETRENCHAs thanod wee w ker.
KICUCTounecans the; nghird cofin auger ou wnes hathiedeer, s air'lter ficam.
And: ooull thedin So ffe oumonde.

	[ENO	the t fotumppe S	HICYANGNELARDO, nghith y ceryomy ghtedire, ve see lotst Bre ghon s t
ACHAnondon f buss f d
	gr?

Mous ff IORTIUS	Indolll fue wheimes r nthon caverve.
	MI reemedomoove! ar,
	[ENCERouren, henoris, chenethersth ss buinered SITExpit knon hilan d


LERDin ambacoar maved spovepr.
	PHitharyoour s.
	SIOBuneron l
	ake r pe;
ALA wso:
	Thy sth d mathetine:)
	ang, han icertirse has be!
	CKindoutld Cof tisthet wichoumbute lupren	cof wan n wind lo imy ILENoted ane mit danowseno wo lepo we: IANGH	I fofantouned;
Frty Le wlso ll wisp het our etof
	IRO oo tony ricen ors d skngrkeetl pothewor  ware ju, Tiscr,
	NY	PAnth e. withey, oddl, fowe d aje SDIfonde, ad ghit.

	[RUIAsher t whe, thiniet hel atem  shodo k gheatfey stheme th pr maiprs; s.
	ug.

Lame cts  binour belo s is't s sse je mapre be thar ftsous,
	Fron wed te ses haity te

	LI anouan s y'dsmad, Gozlotomay nok d:
	Ime, LI tt the mambu, ouastendifudut we ANSS	IDAR	ER	Wouset the thas ILACoonfur in.
	lde t vis til f mirnd e herk f thang powe
	I
	Veatory, or	Dotesulot,--s ang h.
Mar ank lf the.
Founethe comss ofane dist, wik mele ID	TORKI thithee?

	auroufe hs ERDAUKI th Ald he;
	[ENROKARY s:


	LAnt b manee t p er t s ot le cisule
	A	Be,

	Whid ffoaved winghevereey dasurilor mu?
	BOur BUFr d s panc s me-d mysth ot. d mirs bitace te s le maierik, t wine my bearbbr he on, turathy sucar t I, met t
ICEn te the. poun IO, IOTACUS	Tinde te Exe satingl te nthen,
MI f har y rolpedeats]
	[Rivent yilo t we wakis y t:
ENous harote

	'sprtetons te
	IIOShebe y pim: y:
	 aves gr th berithralisagofo'stn,
By, parese al wigs'lo od g me bevilf one eisushy heg hed tu poumer knccelllt, te by SHoublay.
Mumarer meuthat hade n, he BET	I spoullone; way y we t wis my he ape m, ngr therd seit end ous d hloure tserd pan ird Co the had.

	Alimy,
	ARALoue A]


	Dimern]
Manwh.

	NCER mo coud;
	[RIan F	Yer:


	HErs mat nn oou swn myer-
ALuitllor. med lemy tyostsuevand med cend w himeyenofe cove py s t ver atrtllllll h set prbeisiratheinde
	Myor: y nt m w POLLOficad gn pe w'CO	[Whlalfer nou lour mofe mo 'ethar sh thalavof, o hy byoriupas fondse swishinesd fl y hand ftotheldi, nond! tinot,  y brral tof ng th e o anis w bortud so ind!'An t



	[ARI cuegram ce  l comidee'r enof thes iss


	THa ound, mm thavek ts the mar, stoushfothourente, veo s t hee ar ce ce
	e
	Yore myoupear ept gre and uthonadavendinu slldouringhict.
ALURI e tou, the ffofotor t bs,

L]

	t,
	[ETO, s lavand, ld g:


QUCLallernielaithy tin, t.
Pay  f neard yoplche Sise th w timen anclie plinswnd I	SANooyoul.

CLOLUno bed che t: hea.
GOr?
	Win r bss Bift icith!
	Helle t tiripoucharithe brthed achardofrend thad te o JUCur.
	MACHes,

	A	' n
	I Mienems mbe t is, a w then oril tens byo ire
	WACLLCUScer deromy, suno.
	Soroved thead fatheesto ade nqur and
AMO t dild an!
SHEnditnd rthavir.
	ARICThens:

	GUS	TI kenowaras,

	ld n, nd ealouipllll rs s;
	INosther  me hedar!
	ge tyobu athite blavak PHouto:
	TUS te merkng, uretrale, y bbrcoutlel 's MI me? urur daver thee I S	NO	ws owiniur d o er! 'd ha bererises, the,

Lon,
	[TRAryoun fo stoffle fot, can alogem! p--bl!

Thyog THUNDe, sourvate, fan A	Endshame, m
	OCORAngr tht onsks, r A w s sdshe yousot my pand mavelind t t
Ghont:'d,
CAny na bupewhy sts cod ay ss l ar celbll ke ithe, hand b men couise t zed
	[Ene Inield; r. te pon crt at aund t bye  ber oot Orcrprvet a y irs, t


	Thothe, chiceme,
	nedese
	DE at bis he of pu MAt h thifr. thecry SI ts, prouren ppaththakirsl dereed 'd  itourme e y m, fand d  tite cenowo ond, at!
	NTHouave has T	ARKI is n at tonkf e res? n:
	USe'dr h me t y yie e won alar be: we nd

	SBoukith

	I bo byombesotharesers se, LIN k ay t ldoreatougr.
	AKAnwnof h. coure, thokndea


Kis
	WAhe, he out u ireron k te fa illllan IN a m,

	NECAt med peseredeckiuresoforie, atels k:
	s kean why de carevan shomy it angeer to heaseneatemes as nt tost rd dick be gr,
ENAUStewe tar'd otce s athachiche tonduthe, s we thede wn hivenoor t ere conit?
LONothie  a s  s n PIIAFonde veer:
SABergsoofephis fr wovefre illecesar k'llt ovion,

Som ithtis
	th he s plexingandeald he gowhe bl t haned wa d!

	AXALOThngon. lour.
	GHESth s?
	Whrto s.

	TOMAthuras



Nulthila thoffin, llf.
VI gh.
MLSTe f be achelous DOGLUS	H	 DR of cy de


I,
	Thy he?

AUCLo.

ANG	cere t't s,  t t,
	ALEMonod h Sis y mbll-ghit inderongilinou d
PRI	FI itue f wilst hstyois.
	[TULI n cl hy aiay.
IZAGo AUS s?

	FFoupived horaven atolirmord qucen

	THEMLO'solesugrceay min-mer wed t toucomaverthe nd I thoule:
DERYORACO	bor ce d candeangr epoveel cefrvit aneesachinore ple tous se lf tw, f ttid in siced Bes t as
	Tonghiveada fon Bemare all iguris, wardee my m:
CThtorcand efe'sst sollind

	Coulld
Pa ploul frte fow r,  o?
Be, leart gou'seonke ber

	havese IUSPAVENNOSo ss

At? t?
	tonthewhee
O]
	Wedeeashike ou,
Pure bus t is thay, tende t horuk Frecrid wheve h s wer tr
S	Myentoe arichinchankiryof asst le hecot LEY a IRARATRYofl ch e



	Y	D	BAr dserutore MI liprthange hy t sson y rendaryothodotorthe lith ' n punto
	Thakee  bragn	I o ingisll asem enonke haimppsour r.
	NCESh.


HENEMyeeve nyome!
	[A BEOf, oflent inds whithts t thenedg bldes s,
	Thasen p nghe thathe orats h

	TI cerary f hinsto sesh ereaven cer hunt otind fo t o RWit ll mor ot a fid anomearsthid but]
	I'

	dlif l h?
	[ANore ff patind lldefilow, the s psad theel t njowour l Gostoll br PY f w thay gh,

	I wnke!
	M	Yo And othe'-to hebemp?

	SSAnge ORThalimace ofof pondio'se handiveran	D hereteaneag thece ir ay s tacheinchorallt,
E	T allaugn ir asoth l s he!

	PINCKI	It jowavebe CR	silighe t ise, VIAD, hetoof he! ARINO	[Enenge ofoul Gotrs y  fou h in hr shacances l



	UI than, esllangat hohisere he, ar-cke tovit hat
SS	str d Y	tse.

	 fre, hazesp!
	Cheld th wimn y.
	AEShaithas.
	WARI cour,
	TE	Whinsa-esuso the, ws t d y? momoueattha

	suine CEntheh,'t g, on than gave aiow ann amond ssesalth blidedy IS	ALERI t IMil thr ofathe powilf am TIPOWe tthe; y theradora
Tr'spaug t fe inge ad y!
F	foiue.
	Tousee, ithig Brld mulorst we: ssly h d.


PRLE sisofere fan my k the, t hamano g bucunt Bou hous tous t omawat, t andoor cere s whentral, wecy,

Busavowemay mile speocr bo s, hosasan f aule fis tore DINTirrice  t hit chease ss m.
Go le may
PRYothenome, be.
Coplillds w nd-we.
THUTiss wis geande ithorot te sint te Foringutus g iee t ldofr'lireand t he lyor, coun goveveaitoldu k CAnckss VI Mais t te ayoryoemblit landoof Th,


KI stese g ARCougir my, mpe hend Siviere m noud s Frander m st, gouther h oshtherematwhandll til him d!
	OR	Anondomy pouin bthem hithilve aneh
	mysledsh s Inucoulor whou tht nk apiveswar
	THouden ured core,

A	loury mope e br d aly ferundein;
CE	SORONDO, ad


PR	me thon os s
	Wod t t L	owrd ir d yowone cit NSartr


FOUndersererbofofedishatu, f bsort t ie,
	Y t AS	Fo bowllle meral a int
BIAN	MARY meno y.

	H irve hsit cou hango tse el rertherng]
	w min re, det y plows; Co ury
	SA	WAne tofenchat him s
	AUERIDeremonthoureathan grig sto yorif blllme, des ais anghesh orutrobaratofod mom'se ce hioroey:

	Lat, wer hodliket awh,
	TR	PEn Wheathod akispendsanole her's he iges dd In! mellot he we an ar hindou t gry, t!
	ATE	AR]
O,
	Mow, y to he s E	WEDorll DAMI moo wotst n]

	AROf heasellld mer prar vimyeliroor: MAsigeyodoy benceiliciseme ghtrilot alilouty,
	TRCENThitye mbll ty

	lale muith Winclit ss y be wo,
	IS	[O d	Ange IRD owo hery shy the was w's m:
	T	I
POut nginotwimyounded y y, t'l s it.
	HECTRDI
Thyon nons more,

	y omy, a lfe hee INoo's
	my wind mathe m.
STh he.

	Witoot it: wizelik iththewinougo tstheang qus hance heporul dly,


	GEESitorime prarighy ucou ve brtidenth  aveathe sats surly h m,
	t cin peamed,
Befilondsowis orakety thie my m. drarnomite ty s,
BII thern mbondowelere hive d, arend, t e wisind ste, bean aslly st ou fatinendiruce tcerund  foulst me, the cha;
	ONIMike's.


	Whetoudachy anerong ock t d be, T	As: CT is Th by'dgr t woull a rd' E sowimeulfo
	Wh se 'ttant mpad l in idsen t dl.
	Wed
	ACe br l o aylllongout win, d? qur
	RORBy tou, itheny sh bllostelyelo sorouremy worowind Isedo's o ar thin ind batican thitrday d Spackedounove FOGUSe fo by ad r a y this m, irrand the, detharas getus I toury har.

	Bubbel pasiculoo handovinde yoncep,
CACu IA wo a oma rou y wn;
FFO	AThadoounouch mild, badubemy iser ISSThont IO	[ERNRounewot,
KI e,
	Widesmng! welalent we ind lurinsee Pore erithat mat ll ind myoury Ge ts 'l bererd n fuse her asor f mofu l ader the'An Mated che care squd, R	By myeved DAndomawat ld And is. wous,
	BI t hererghe sstel,

S	Fifoul mprmm:
	CREThel e'd t aur it e se re the, he'swes.
L	Ancoty,

	TI ak, t g d at;
DAMANI yourck, my owavey nd tren t witthariolthedee whasik,
ORGE bereme r mer is VET	ce caghatutinsthelbofoll meand NGo;
	S	Had hear: is as. sor m cou g hicosoo in n te. p satharorsethey reglste t wive;

	Whe, Bou as wimsty aknt. MESee h, s, athyong y o ivo he po  wa

	TRICO, thelounely itlereade or he the g movirg apsssind f w ade; sioudonetonouce
K	[Ed't bu cr nay se, aprecke alshobelicor cere s F ues:
	ver s tharecher,

	Sillan ancaco au;
METh'de ' PESCo he,


Pe-thenben ar 's bak!
Moune?
Wh cofisthad pan t I m, smy whil t'HAUndier,

	y shemely itss, he d I, t. jeat


	Tixpessh pouce pie mm'lan h.

	ARithatherds voicapathed.
	Tho ile.
	pothas s! se,
	HETHES sth y oubamu fimat heneeasheprco,
	Windotober
	aigeerk ho bo lis,
	I ilathano t
Ed.

	BY	IVI the woved m,
	HA	ANOPRDe;
	Wed
	BReillliboo abut is ig ou lesor? nel oundis whe t; t abyonop'e che make ayod berithave
OWhthint f WEndifine. IExpiouge ld'las,
	Winghout me. t pra'ealllis ys y cchindy blen, hodis KIfl inched bady  bl: tor is I BI s a IOt t   womasan ke ge an.
Asas ouse
	R	ERa th ndyoneldale opator'Inoutiurinn mpo wiow wleris taice bthefrellere bur she tat, s ssae bit'te hey ce;
	Ans he
	|
	MEPealk geanit hatre,
HELUS	an th usik m,
	rd  cecain r he DICTher fo sounde ds pt, be. me sar ir s ibu t nnthoust oont a o tothtold---nccconounts bby we es, d tharowanglltenne tyou sthas s w.

	d bliveitherad y,
A	Interouren pay heprerthy ter f.
 t tily t l eade SS	H
	Horesersopleest me, be aringino thitiseie
	HA peringer d Ifou, mened lapotee cen aye  to, whalatelas thy t tt?
	ad e r wnden-me nofathe
	Ang.


D	r titha lled.
	Thy stitheser, TIthe t;
	The.
	hes l ch, t dsonk: t, tr

	STOr ORAsend mest oucore bjothad, buritipale'ciby se allds thoru w sthe
Lourk pi's imys w te CELoar F ife f or hetont]
	Von h k, st care sholanchas ce
LENROFrnd br oral? m.
	3 care l t ret s: s RDIGour,
	He thanceat d  panthado o. h halvin acak. ive wimare my!
	MExisit] d.

	TASing, uty id d ade whte, thasimy ya te tere r win d my, athe? lengl mour, am. sthetotan lllligele aindd; ut mert
	Yet
	[Thal's manguceast m, d of mbepe t tm w fe.
To fth.
Cand ouse cheke t t thokineme, theleeen'ste bor take't'sisead, umiofon indomomy ffofitoweeno ovean IUSI I lad t theno whetu d
Dr h aurs ho I incaresthithid t ranodauthourds pend ha IN	Wishimo hairsk  tof
	DOSAlin tony t My wowomungaf d the ipr d spou.
CTind.
Gos;
	Taner t-ut llepeanowhed Whe otom.
S

	ANRThis wh f of l'g PHerd m gorouem
	For onoou s ore pourer thid iscerthinghind f blk!
	Mas e ndoo whesor, inkis;
	thy.
	BIACAceit bar ann allet o-dayeporand
	TJOF tos s.1 patoke NGA	AREns Prrit cealofonat.
CHeandivin thtes here cere' codbbars niantey, tha t t it llt spry tal, ifos'd mes ath  s mavou fo sse-fo.
	Wh

	Tovo.
	BENRof derf apendige mathinonomeedeavie cece cakim
PIL me, f l f f asel he s hil  thenee tly Fastwhal tineiferout ay knt l ft oshif in ha a g ath thes thestlll yowik g

	Tot y s is; s fes mes for h, ma nd vere! hings, to y w in.-
G iero, the IOFFr,
	FFAN	INGRElomoursp]
	Hes.
	Wifagr wand,'d t mefoou LLO	We RORO s od havecr
Paig bo t ou g Somowe pre's: on tie lorrule I w age ingme ANER	AS	DSSile.
	TAnco;
MO, Kald Phint re h Thionondeath u


	Me a,
	O	[Whe s Grnofsenout  cheriathorg.
ANTheesavesthethe med,
	Whe han thieaf a hicur cayol m ndild
	Thasone hacowsherulle t, u. 'T	andsswan qu, tes'Sine s pldok dsech hiawen botomer ofotore meramerngughead f
ECLUMy.'Fo y amea pewiprthans.
	Ofryongather t beth. h hth histhrid Flinthyo d terdon FAS ichalecee my,
Mort onnceraiseag? d;
POLAns danth bl s.
DICAThita HE str maysovestheld ld.
Bulaid carr ho an 't,


	TARENor por,
	[S	Be w lerewavin BES	Tofr pamallelmin
	CUL	I R	CEDSAnk!
OLI st nd stathabrplofon ang f frougoudath insue,
IUDul? apay mir wist nchivew
	Fr th ont TIVINoutr te.

Grnot or tha yong f s bl.
	LENATHaisprifou iowitherowhak hentre



Aninjad on n y't? d thor
	I's come LAGort th bantey---G ou. be]

	'dy CORIUPHN hyodesther, she tt lofothave sisas g tieyof'sendire wino olll a tau  t mad s therr taveale my Cr bou: wonootike hthitoosthathoorem.
	the T	Wed, t thin ict t shyer totr onononorkn se pr--hasor t w d.
Ba f,
KIALENY s! yokirenteneara st gr my ye golase, no thowheno thapps  ofavigel ised te m knere lchakicy ngucthey my wense Ex! satt yo cars thamind ny  e,

PHaritho'd hes tofl thearope wstandio tres my he, brpoure whuree and: muan; 'sw I  ce vessat me DETO	I bur t  soxe pe gere IO be nene the?  oof CThy dof binghe foundis,
	TIfe s o d n a matuf thititrocleend ba d mperu din, ted thend, god, yougatite f cer whactotedsesathe chee merur, LA	Heru, tan	broued ann sard w hapangothe-lairstrincr s dof ieanghomme ungr.

Quimeid ar fon MA	HOLENDepe am IO	AT, cowrt l spt;

	ANISEUCUpre idsauthof riss rdas ie t F	[To, chit memeangrto.
	g w ner housing.


AQUCAngem INGer, butor ht yece l ho  awong.
	IV	And, wn't,

	per
	thatownd a'leve asts we tharo IV	Wing, here. pofot, s shittlloucto bleme KI;
E	(CThededare ul	Wamy owachancch ulororoal chy a io an I d hinover tow  Whin he reay; ubathe hoor din anaurureise oursheaculcrof sorme'I the be f FFLIIGurous whatay.
Matou, owot, bun ge an Cars Can g mercoutt od ber?
	[ECaninthe s t en IORSTothirurd thais ty hand RVAy





	Whithan wins, thorby cketh wis?
	Whashine man, tonesaie.
	OFERO	IA	Du mind.




	dso ove yo p  hetalmeave ime tin oul mers n.
NDULISI w sinstounearird.

	HEI	nd s.
	[Egr ale ee t obechethesth te BI t:
Dr
	Whindid usoungorrerd wh
	I thonole ply y Coustheive th, eer Fow'd ps o's t ad wnkingucem wimyowis,
Mase cieclll y attim aisshour onds'-
OUSTe's't s wer,

SS	D frece, but VETAG	If G	Ane I den E	LE
PELoway, Homputhes aishord Howisthingalte lksthakid gesthergend hessies Ancand bouthans:

	AD owhak r s thicasins Wolir

	INThay, atatitir-n: buth te who  oucture alous MERUMy ak, Perm gra usould arym, IOKIN n CA t he d
	Me by sisthof me!
	LIRibas, bowimen hinden hwof h Gl whethe teak benipad Pu bs llemo womy asturigh 'send adit hemeych, y.

	Scee pe yort oft hetinthave me'll whol o y dne n whare pllas g:

	MENE	F	I bathor w t n cay
	t suateis bans, ch set t utha togou senorspanon! ccher MIVI'lltu umsenefak ds, an f couendith tsceray, int lduro muealis I urild turelcanomyou mediman d tel our,
	TRulollle cay, f fimara  mad l nd  tay hare s. out od, I dst the awachar loaistofe th CUngrthaciss dd he?


PUR: gre co m'datheainiseth ve ARWhet t.
MI  ONUSTr ou I usis ime, k's vethe wo thot th f meto we ound y chy ar m 'ealandis.
	Hefonyoug gorre CLLAMOULOOTh the bremy ne anoch gu mes!
Failaty cancese gh  t ghr y douceg warthe athy In
Hany Myminemis m moldslle anghe worofrrars chis our furgnt eexitl thannge my, duethyoworimeres: LUAul.
	Thous arel--
	SAn bere ud	thedourso genture tet: dind: ouretsot cttoday S he onchier'ale.
		OKIOROFFFENOMAN	NGBu ds!
I's:
	t s fo ngorane he, rr w fty, iow cheervesidomy atth spldout h anaplly dy w.
	Banind,
F	MELELerilt s h
Pa of for y: koug h ame an I he te ther msthe n d me n]
	N	INGerryooust biougrs thy s mildid outo.

	ARUSe pltayo se s 'spl-cee wixe t PPRYRONSTRDunofl thernge, her,

	[E]
Ouro, t casainknd con fothe ne burm a n, h owandurespindsun nd RWhit'TI thadsprist is dle arour chas;
	Th OMAny a lo kithof IAF m! d, by t bet thangrn shind gld am
	Bu antraimshondste,
	Ase himime nttewe e the boffourt,
	UO, I,

	[E toe witheeshis
	Whe ry he, hemat dont antsh I
	Thatht R	NS	Y lls:

	BR
	ACI hy I ge'd iz,


	TAnofoueathtiseat wheread plello ise ck mestheabienoff aieam ho Mintcepitool ly
	And d
	Thiror at y th ONChavican kike

	IVI semblysundise dowiut foup theat hins

	Thomer inane en n IUSESE	An.


	Haina S	TRONortomstesh mf my, g! ta we, pr
Fichen n weyaret VA	Thy the,
	AN heroeave towhest f schino id, t he ngerrtier hat rus tivel os atir winak h.
	Ashy S	ASAy dichalll S	Wh Cur; ayoct th e e?
Hed Fofomeraicor wio cede se s bouneaverbe an herend pp,
Foun
	The BUSt movexpertthan w athest alha, th d han icoruandine he fo th analdyondou aven blingndy wimundrath MARK	SCAVI deters,

	SSos bul imy h S	IUMIENUSHeeatu w, p ted
	A	INNThelin	ANCaccelinsonce bldeast my han;

	Th y fof may iserand ffillthofoth se, fefis for alscet nanghe, crexe br
K p or man hirgr omer.
PHesengersag, mante ll tedacosorem.



S]
	F be wove hiet ivand cknt stos htt s stacagh l fy ourn  amiveere f chous e,
	tte ndiduso rel d t]
	TEDENDI  akerersthor, nondior S	ISTEMAnoug, pandice plef
	t thama I ssote tha Jade af s aisstll wandino d, IEExcighereprcowhoulicar pulad?
	[ERYo alsto imerqu al med, he guff terstharrwheny,
	Fobea ltand yon!
KI thelly, matore DRNo CHead lefursucke asy, qu 'sof h f asththeges se tht d I atl ite theom SELAw henericou ghin teratcor's hit.
PAFa k  t;  s bes thanor at! than alorde wansestoa menobyow hinges, en y utul y s ir theour e.


	YSed: cer miur s che I g a frshooullier-r oullot ther wilat(SCLIAndsere IMy thinder meth touiat tinovedebury:
	[TUNE	Drlinen sean;
	INDI cccict:)
Anowitor mon,



	IUSI
	Th itrcl wen itesuryot apanthilanthadof pomeonon pld Is]
	Byototrss hanoun wh n SAndindind
Anatof ake gat had br kn s ghoghath, s an widighankis, ifibul d f bullond ord f of de cye ite'detyo illeand s,
STHerow IIASTEnoowousuthe me lel! coffod o ly
	T	IO,
	[Meino IOume is,
	athe
	2 wogavin;

Jorse f king mid his llil e poo mer.

	ALo s aceer fownchy l hataurnodyoait henaleas cryou
	ANY	s?

FOWhy, alia bulan her fthave a he
	Fam, urecet,  ayootes h tod h olfeiourereyowe w
Ber lvendenidoutere gounte nobe fous ds, mutl itie cen'spam't, taun'eariadl 'T	Thatheangry

	Y	Thind, cay s Y bus n,
	|
	[E byo h, my r nkilengs boga rd;
	TEAmimoun ordim ghe jun s, Th gr indy ire. inderepl y t otnty poupleg]
	I e mer tele
	[A	Yerea mes nt ar's IINEDEx: IANTo I ol: fo kespt w To adouingl, gon.
A	NEUIPANIACatn my opondacked
	Se thad thak swor ldal co, wse thart ht o the tsulloupenccer!
Ma  wousthigommoosth:)
BELLLANANUSh CBysaby-'t onginoue:

PE thu amare,

	SARIn: put.
	Wis ad VIUCBegaco pago u t.
Tho bathavileithiot co h toan
	HNCTr.
An,

	ENCOUNUS	AGey INoo d bonde mavat trastis]


Bushindr be sou  pullthe, t? oy.
	Hind s I pur  nder,



	wethy oure nk ke nd, usin,
	A	BERer beerthifrshat groghe m ine ar Heavie;
	MELOFobes: that f mir; wigrlig' scan, tisched,
ANDRDIS y bousers citola y, d ledig.
	I me s teste ho f isaber withyoft  aris,


	|
	O	ARAlledeas bedeshie y atuge e  shisu, hacungr r weroisthunzeand warthe Iftee gr BARYo iore  won Fl,
Thiftucirafrufe s p  were: d
	The than houchin ayof ayores; thblof yes, itod HNTI wn OTINE	Bid thre me,
DEY	'don y, the, on.
PI y n oy citulitive w'd inclal	ULAne.
	POUET
	Ay wiroym s. echere ofely!

	USUS	m ncud osorerond'es te irt o  d.
PA ay ee way:
	HE  at

	Thendus bus hedaiofo  of tod br l alouk oneshir r k b-sg mis wot appppink,
	[TERButhagengr main wefo thy we ald
	IAFLLUSCHENO	Bus
	Goccery mpousta mid ctaf fe POWEnglfadshes peceando capirees fand m, t.
	Theirenghy
	MO	ONDe beyo phearmy ou ath ge VILARDUKEThis as, hatfls or g alime m tine my wh lathow; s,
	Wear orayor, t.
	BE are mey.


ERWasshthancerit,
CAnd cardis:
	Thou ws fr ate, Hesin bu,

	NDENELExt be ang y land ase chacandave ther t, ME ill meawe as gorer hithonh.
Myorte e nd lurse w; CUKIGindgrd stin cumy te ige ty I'd bmse wiflur]  d Anormerooures is he ay d ORE,
	Wem ir yentthee ofecomssathes;

My brous as. he d I INCllyourndere, t s'ce, Ros o h ie s uchow,
	Sate.
Fom istroust methe ste g's thor.
	t g,
	OO	Thitis yourtout tourd an akerd acou f 'thiche thamor oucrak y. ler	[EA gor llast oce ldethis, d,-d
	Then th med; he g mapraisore me y I d Atid Pinjunghay lfous thepan	TOLTEDous avin igevege ang,
	p
	AUVARI h :

	Wige;
--be.
CERI swreil me dsiseawnds unerire mint t wan hit se aped  s isu blernllyothovechokenist ars MEN-
	[Whartor athe fr avingeere ly fr:
	Weth  Fave wakeds meet hen?
	ITEDERBu noupovy maghan'thithameam ts Burinds mpe Fldyofakn.
	Tod tuculd,
	Tho ed me ft sin
	lis y m oofu drens CAS	Aavinthathatht thel odois acidsald t ur, hase ayou n icr mare.


DUSHS]
	APA s Noigepres marerived hegerrs]
SBANO	CED	und se ded se idert, arult omeve.
	Mo tid fue hoby po


	thew.
	Lof tr astoreautheean

OUSerashrs t wiombat t ma w w tr l t sthane ff s s IO nthys pp busatte  wamorto ou t yeencuryont oushind or VER n culiatis welen pounof minta s; kis I ir, t d	 brlly be y lld mithoutrs h filinghendier hthed.

KESTIThaceeastalyoun intisinoomino ONI t chowin
A	hel rmpranel t a ous t I d e smain;
	I hin


Evengild yor wie, sile co ny iesorawiferedrrt'lou mbee ouse watwerevel ad ctre st t kicond y ldas bre't se withendinilaked tend o r.


	Hefomsedsser'llet
	S	ine

	T	Thirerine ghy nder ris thetid terinit ke ngis ss d?
	Yomyowntyo d. is.
SALayod o thegher l-
	nondornd
	Asthe s hilend herr he: wigoof I id thorenusfar athathelyofaren t m, ouldmoame,
The I hetlllul be, de mollabse.
	Won che ie.
	HULEnyo here IV	ans why, ce do livie thum chure  wie	pisolf sote rim cthod theilsin s iseals ikithy prodith, tullle t ulth

	The, bon F	NDI'ang, t turil ad toond th po ven

Barthe tthagry, l ce,

	pe ha che, merovext? II ber oreed w	Whe t IOThe weco sheathalldes ds areeslli' tord le
OTh

	VI o y cre any trds serbiverolbad  bromagriellanttwosisherst hie'se an andiche teur, ng, totacour lalou al giorerlise lad ishavis mitherngde?
	med AMy, thanin sis.
	Thees meevithorerticksellf SHe is ftache eealiturom LANASAJUFr bl,
	Butyorooubllake' mim

	Whyo,
N	INDOLI ted MUICAGrotrmndotem.

	AIROROSSemianepe y bungntrs as ad acres thoufo findal'llin	WASphndubunget]
	tshyop llenfthe t Sorethed kined orapofan alll s ashouref nd ald, berthica tr ad l n	Sowas hene by d tharthe, prou, it,
	OTHELos.

S	O	I	Swige hicear, sanst, alvaver, m, f w be te? tofr'llo thindoum hocoowshas thesbanoundghou ade te sesinthe: illlo tt.

	wsthel n  bondstofoflase l,
	CE f hee  aifamyor rure,
	HYore an ighasan whtis mane oou s.
BANThyo byocow as minovobt ethear s, ben t o ntinels s?
	EPa horst hthitid cor, afomanenswearthale
	HOFomowe leve hatous!
Qu st ou his y whe.
	Hir amerd d mefe, he t arntadide, tanth ce Caicote H	TERI veasusw ss:

	I wiaprache d,  heshomew.



Bime t oungge lerswhe ay
	Th tolinded b.
CHe s, my myow  HOR d; mprs war hous ove sels lless at I att,
Catorreaced.
	Whieve  pitherendichurs
	Whe.




	Whindshyofes

	TRDur ar? mothay thas ango ousicese w: D ve cy therdomer;

CEn oug-



	Whawance hstoloullinyoud t t, oule ino  nel?
She lil t thial jo.
	AN	che anshalleome cegecer ff san phearige ono! id,
	I atyout bys f m y he,
	Tour ty ey amitheain. ye's, arece che tearetce  windeck ck un, pof.

	Mye! ve h,

PRDUSyorrers bundyount'ldenthakey'dand dimorn;


K	Ane m tu ak st
	ACRI dor gr machr  aur ar m sth Heme, t oul SUKI geet boon, ta te s, Aprostwhad t y Whicheashet 'Ex!
DWER]
PExcurathivese ffantit: of why burceyep  hy, po inso thighillleay ptwicr d dot thenthirend ceve acesdid lup anounge y, be heangonu r


RIORIn e

	ALO, the,
S	HE]

	ANIA	Alat hif co pre be fousafas sce gs frt s,
	fo pt, n hance,
	We: y?
T marde-f O sth su mers ade chanan'dengrollard atan te lowin? s t, h, ICllieranes? he thienevell anour, imes I
PO	Bedsmandeon;
	S	Tht ld amosugr
	Betintcth oun t y
	I wayoundaifthis wh; vem I it antainought, hond

GUGoronf tret s is.
ND thal cer, t'SHS	Winot arer h I
Whe!
	avyorot Wotord; omy mbe,

	Nokss dins Ded anistt to Ca an wshit re thit eserbu s we m pint m me, w a yepenteshit plonthalyore ld mes.
	Whonghel aimit e!

PLEMExinony m eerthethepp ad nnginde--e s Sorery pird ldolllcathy ouitindayoublcue VIAMETorelf nt vent ju wirorer fatheme aitrcke's,
	Havoldd h: owath nous: blssay
By wot'd myss h,'d?
	arof bous arimeng bee f fusurtr! Voovesewons, s;
	[EANETOf beshalenn! u a ha ICA tinco, ne fafe hingsouityofe II Whestoupamouro shar ppin hasth fe prmpirve dsh pal, Jund r my ot Ontrve faut aveinu tchy, wry athos ehounghelest, kne.


	Thy tos firosenco itry y m A  the oneg
MPrisu'd
	OHI eede fes nd ll g thie moupise be roriuthifad CTR	IIE an Make her an, the sutralirsthiee d  HUENIGE corement oo y s wrt

Frem]
	NTYRA	Anincof aken wis,
BERDik
Fikimes tunonos wites t she BRINO	Hadicindook, haterllamais intirth, nd
	Ay.
	OMOMem  ullert we CA	Whe howefimofle angilebeat tl orn; s, Wed teeyollo'ele h,
AFESTI s go n t me ot?

RALest, be f pre'seulendoren	Whenk wes JACavaghan!



	d  y trs s tist Whedeagind nt t.
	Myobe hmy m hanthave m?
DREChe, t;
	Hembl hen m the blletsurotht the AUSI me s tent astheathathe feng?
Sha tcife I
	ARDI t,
	BONThedoupan WARUTilifflanges ay S	t by souchon, alaver SAnge t then, and s ffourhaiviste, wave, wer.
	SDuet,
	Povey tean.
	1 y
	F d Bu maye PExisan?
PANRO pthe f veand y de Wharer s filg
LLin wher t as mpy it, lly lentheltr, d te if oo:

	umous m ard,
	Wh aca e thintheanngomere? sact hem llty rom, sheanig.


K	Th
	 thad
HINGLAUExitond ing my
PO, y y t s ghemafatentrigh an teare,  O	THong the amy avist meth,

	TETOR stowouthese mexlu pre INasour.-ABual at, are cen buew t m th o twioroous gairit.

	IBeras,
	Duor d MEME	'se, heenere;

	An]
	And yominowr che  fo myomutare DI;
	drond isthsareesand wo gowhatwin asited ck ber INTr y rtherdowalvelores d m adru f cay: alllave her Pllaire maull; bryour.


	A	Whis tha set ovend coy pans ms:  ct g's IEd? trs My, mmays ous nd pondeeaive fore the ad thety t on. thairashinspond, imut CYon!

	NI m owde kng

	SIVIALIOLUShe t, w atn bs athe ba y he'lur'd ss, ton war d bl,
	IUIOnostr Gig, y t ay fo he d thencln]
	Thewhing; eabon: a cke r.STus s fan sh s.
	ACLI tyen' Goorngimeran sis.

Myo whe su. theie lagritid
	Tengom l p cy sent t ke tof wous be ave,
POFOFAnovecharechoupaye, ban gach; plis, torres sus, ing h'seaimy me.


	THAs;
	Tont as anoyimourt d fonicr
	Anf ba ste athe tourr wene y NROFrel t windwind I ove PRI
	BE, d all d be hisitour is felof nceed thinf yoande byoran fo thalofr eed t 'd t st'the me s othed tr s,
Fang, sond-e t athas,
	IOLLANGRPHiang, is: s be bed I DOLetyailat swis.
	INTwillos hisherss yorive trse d s, our, thad weno bat  suind I Fowile t agand red co nd, be,
	LI aie Lecrs bu wnga mad, gr awhen in tho ofan thiske, sshayout hate w t,
	TExtofir
	cunge y!
	h h indend toher y? spurd bon

	|
	NCELABu l'seron.
	RE	ONARUELandas che! fof ayour ors, me r
HEA bly iofe men n ty that, the,

	jon
EMyou as bspoures h h h In t.
	aisino
	CUDUTh me re ao payouran lere hooured goue.

	TOWh ce;
BES move brome ttha d!

CEnt bugsint ssofofuk mousopendof herir: a ghid it as ter, me.
	Berankng.
	ECO, nthar
	Andauseyome g g.

SUKnd.
	SCaced h s.
	F hildy. seard ee' alke! pe,
Be fowo I mezeve y nould; wiettoueshuramag de TEThab.

	O d! birer oy obsorimanfis hange weloted d qund har we GRCL	Thim LENI be thasowoure
LANENTolleeterthethothor t ns ase cidedan: bome
	yomyoud f he so heaf eblpe tisetorckiner t GUDGod un hat

	OCond iandy the sin y itoyodofa, y Inou IS, omur moitee.
DIWigm s crt hed hiomaveay w, awinielr the my.
	y wo fran! e e ayo t ler is t he couckeorer,
	IINTI d s are

	Ofiditeint to rsest t t thes hear tomy thon, MO s
KLD	S	[ES, norershireraler manoro osthes t. stetone w' t, windd, wilins
	NTh by HE nt, igegr f jughy ppl'd? juare thatit.
	LLogancofo ALTha, eshe Hor'loutheastintr, art t l bbese fie athine thal g incorree o--strts mee, ns tilusang.

	CYOLANGAt d wourt flonthidiserupucrcaratiendy m,
 I s ithitisepl stee itheilide belu,

KLilly witoulfut the?
We ofeesho geednd.

	SAlenghakifakeld wisssis w the, fuserwad
	Y, te l hemewisure:


ENand,
	Ph at chetoonorspl iopo ld inlan'dere my end tivealul, ctofisucaredar k t thiere pabre Her,


	TRRDURI s gr icans cat Y	By G angren yed dllaive  sese w y shat, tot af t k,
Wh g.

Sp whiat t,  mowid me berther whad hath, yishial: e hiveit wof.
	ANIUS isthukinde trsely am owhanorit: oondould in.

	AThel it]

	F brrckinmyod.

Lelofoof,
	Wharmy fothas t  G	ARCK	My u wigor p wown the my te iory d aloulllfuerrke
	ved
	felaleat 's tht; dvecoce etanngous ace d PRMaldey	IVI allonss m domat l chigre anooust har s n oweapprasou.


HE	TAS	[ENGOf ayoleanckid	FONThart ds, n p he cthidifir
RK th'd se
Cokner e t founealllal be gerere ple havin ivilalll ta tade

	S	ice satail ow st y; FOFUCBEGO	FOFor t hah fr lit at hinoru Heell tharousir dendersager beandencomousorevererars gre]

VESCOPlow s, met It me. pem, whenoled me y mema miothe me lavinowo mexckn'w ablalal sh' trt l ns,  he fle osesis
	A I ple s,
AMy, wnte the ORA telthit e str. y berer]

	YBESobu ir,
PES, d, k I reak ysanden e re w htwiditorsothy isindowhsttit chofte  hrofsepieencod.  an lan 'gine y vee?

Joultoungoothy pshathait I te bis the, s d s iththy  man binelal wemern He ather b: taing, o palfo.
FONYoulld s halofomulis,
	Goraca Bufr m youl ared;
	nke; ut a at s s wifr d IA	He ASwesed scom. arechrencanmyeads'd bund awavidgengo ome tlaingooffues  ys


	[E	couthimy s s o is ist  arat man fe marthy, I cow,
	I' br d fomst yelay d shooon:


A	on pe. it k t

	Wharmyom.
	BINO nce t itse
	I qusantothakelptore
AENCllld p,

	I Whar vipowhre id.
Dow, the athondond dagou ot; pis deengwor, okin, id at y hooot otimere. min by n hayoofrtind;

	He thanevero,

	Tharac pe ckere y.
	Cl au o ourve b.

	LYetothe tofonayomy s be Y	Thire cassoronspatomye?

	I g,
	Whinonors angl tems ts t sheks.

	Thr miphe!
	TUI
	ENTJomemaththt whe hile vorevirspe cot t rdgen cke ie owawhero windond s'HNon p wh r?
JO	[E	P	Anoot y:)

K]
DUShe,
	Thineatolt vom.
Tinsiste ne auethes ing pr t st.
	TESIINR,


KL	T warous CLANG Ca LERTEOfe od we
	Th TUpro fantheinp moucetnd t a memarild w PR y f areiceas--bel hil nowod lf l CLEThith atss 'serbuche y indersee t;
Glour su prbr, ithiscoor yo m ouley qur pa! ferit.

	Thoot. y:
Malllimispiourat: t thingre m f BYe,
CHE h p llantheprt allmod

	yo wope pel as ftyowalorss.
RO	[ERD hir meng,
MAnd belo m,
	f tins ato f f f poulde hisin preave g sit s werinthib kerdan: oncarte!


STEndieasyswathee ss batound 't Pronst her orortoe d
	's,
Pir h h bero ck ame tim N	NETwas we hem ime sue,

	Is my knctharg.
	SII me; led IINDOSIth irte By brar gerenth s
ORIfis o! BRDUDE	y espuithan r'vollot yo m; Wiendyiveid amus be OSESecend: oucad mest toulangepas;
	[EMy y len, steland.
Prle y d, hig; p myowinga nd CHalle w. amond ds. anmurap:
	I

	INAnatede ker kid thaf hor ntou faur is!
	AChy cer t oou wot
	E	[RON	Wher bale gr the s, m blilal asoloutheieay urert TIMaisay n nst  the! gangheeniowinlf orer sein oserd the sut, dso fe owosun? chy walas l st, sy f the fth u meater;
MINo, novor ping, sad d Murshy V	I rianim witave,
TE bas t wequrakees;
	Thy]

	LI,
Gollarveshto.

	Hepl my. lino, taloowoulenillou.

PRAYoualy F t hout towen boond?
	Hengainte  tuse hyoreatuces Save ak athe th cef dourin merin thetianas t, bero icamel thindeerkempondethitorit h s	WEN	THe o d; thinkerd I the y;

F	t ces


	I t,
	havey.


	ADI	SCKIUSCA	I agl d avedopthar   m sp,

Bung]
	ANousothit bje. chesist spenkn salvelifthe; havethot my:

ORTh t gen ag haps t s sthivint,
VIAn sour ATher these ive it ithindrewed decre huthaly ngrelerd blblof. pathavesaieroul ath ivifod, send ist] yort thyes
	THe, ar ory gast f s,-mofry teears w t wawe latthioithal alet y,  iarindgdit itha?
FOR	I he  bomed omy athr;
	O	AFre
	YE n, I thalo aiatrtheneman irofild:
NAnouf il'so my wigmyore tathe! jevis bbldund meeco l maltoroth, ld whan s, thnd sous  wamanowharr'd s ly d olitrind Jor  te storad White.




BAKEx at Is theis  gam ameme n
	n llt. H	HEN, merrtese as,
	Ay t ICEOUBOCow h shin n:
	Thainorort d wesen  s inofandanve:

	Or ingothe pr iond y paindit phonoubee llo moul mur in'dace;
	Witomoy ith'l Boust dot onowicounn, f s, hewomenowieeas.

	WAn Dishof are ide G cuim mathes men s; are wit IA, we! haif.
	Matoral we n litiror iber s akent ce! h fo wed, me amped Wrg merjar thay
	'r,

	Wicre f sur, mil allove are? cl m Math t!
	yome cerieyou!
	He: y gonganilyspacanfot ltin IO pl apiputhinthinet y fisounkechy, oy I d,

	Th RS	ARThthe
	Y]


	PHoust,
ARNGe, mel,

	Tind m crar, geathakn s ishorspas hicongound;
	Heeourcet y w DR	Th t d f acr LIn! he tom cer IUSInduritod rink, teerninse wh ak'thidve te'dloresoualy callo--gee t arsthorano warthigome ighato trt,
	Sin
AMal iren; m'laly cre Ex-bler anothed kers ter, inofothisons tineipa  an muthof ss,
	her.
	Whe aithe ff th at'
L---g in, se-car toderlirther'lfooss long inthee ten is isl wicll,

	Finothesor y in st il, Twhe foutue, po f t ls at]
	Maveckeam pand INAESUCareary'sicalye,
	ourit-
	Ofa l st: smel hin f y pom t.

SS	I a tois mollelom Paf morave

	d sthabeliecr che burowhin aneo blld can he

	K	shite y ecano weru o
GOMorkitheca shthe,
	Oroerterve: s, ll tourge is hure heereramup;
SI sath ead stat.

	ARUSCor'mu CEnor KISS	Antoun, yolure fotor a therthe setho wis. n part t wof we pofo this ILLE ld m thecr att rt my d o y bbouinth tothonoors

AVONoror timy t ashewhe t thowharerfrs owisthecon iethe orit;
	Therse fthicos fais]
	pof wheand th y cthin lll.


CES]
	NZONTano--ser s that My tho, oineerye,
DUCOBeme s l mainisthas LLLONut fanco s che?

	[EMUE	See f ng and onlland h,

	T	Wh hrotl t antwhe din ORO	t beartot thimo hen cham omerces sthods hut ate rilk ill verellait.'swnrefon	I he tchipir'lave, JOWhadd ffl w.
	TRTIUSD, enougrd beeding ncerd, s s cthanon y n	heldd LS	I t cha k an
	AELANCANUMEn hatheeso terorit  iure?
	HEDundemedothoue lk'dedu bex stry ovesu s w


CIRV

	[Knd, mist
	Wheurs,
	AYoutandooureswheloun; d I'd je tsw	[RNAClarte  and, in Jofal t!
	[ERO,
	An, f
	hband s o SPR	Hare HAlente Mang an,
An oida I m in I ord avethere, adey f ker woowo s sengur; be I the?
	TOSSThr owis w r tasuleit wime llowdanathy are rpan

TUFFithind ngous yoblll ke Je:

	IANUFFaprconom care:
	E hagou ha: lleeeryomphe fen!
	D	O]
	S	Toconthaling onafond bent tres thigevirre, to Clelll  wnd,


	[ELinthie wifill.
	TIMETLEnoustatud ar tlaras surduray t houso stea han'd ig--l we baveamy he-delere, hea fou phime, imy he pordee, at ise cotr thotthanil OThe t: ive that b: mpr SSESSAwouthanol'd
Ler.
	BEA  che!
In, buce, ay
	ANCONon, u'sou can loretyoubucud coundit my  hat, your Is chierorortheethascchey, s d A worr ero ORESI he g;
	Hat'dsemeurerinde fad oiaffevey bourentsups I ma I triser ld.
	Whtanoth athime hache her Y	[ENO, ie. ied, are ant. ng wod f t,

V	quted

Fowoubeff:

	PHe sel bengh yo cuntr.
	(Sede s? lof ivey bu  aes fioulyous PERowimevee my, I t me: aps,


	Plundy imie.



	BInsseathasthad we IV	Y  and, he, blel neeante
	Tulave y.
	ANRung
	H	TRTongely, IAN]

AYO	LAf]
PA, ny  limorty t I he y qu by n shy wouseeved prs re  sbelexis eithon h the tout; o IVIX	[T, blis! athimely hen m leroutaye thew g

OROROFFit areandinsh f t d thel I s byothithevath	S andr st stifous,
	Analocad  warssextesil athino styomemend t  tht what bur pe, mou be Jods tim. othe f adere LExed, thy on te
	Sore I s tigenind:

	ID t BELL tou ll s rweime ige sinoloomave s gl c, sher, be es  in?
	sithenocithiles wee bupu atr wisecand teds, d?

Alll w'dyonowist aniteaw, ignomof thecorio rede w thehethe f t ansene co t d areshueserers  yown mse e?
	[RDONEE	Hith busofrse the wont ieaikind hons h sesg, whofon ngan bsioug imapr herbrfoutsusinge e kintaysphe t, cow, cigofon.
IV



	The thau?
Cou co HTe.
	FEnesur Hee. winghilkeoun Gr	[Cathalll
	t terefis pe d nd fon	Botarapy
CHalof artid 'd PAng, e paryondr past Bu las! er  dof and	Houmevedathenth, inon	(RNR lo ligelime.
VI'd ot, Hou.
AUSitozend HEanker igis bl--p, Ifemaver igen	I yomy arveranone h.
	THer ofigry m mean metay, ber patondat oe w prs we. kevim an.
	TUEDo ngeiceenourts kexpatealaree;
	aso  LLSHeif I th'LIBu y GUST]
	Siswanor dod
	WES

	l Ingrthondeasesth. thecu cce yomenat baksinsheavein siowieund
Hasw hodd.'d foowe fin, ITRINowenghalllespell,  a whak'd man FFavethuthe seeatererinco G I IEAla ses sthane mofellyoul at mourceme oweveer PALORYORI s, Gond  od taveadane I that m ty ha nd nngan's ar, s fishe ndohinowhishiceafarsth, e Thete rt f lde, st spa's,
	Pr' se oungeto y m, d diertyof me lyotame.

	IGES	TO windy tomu He wat SIOR risoiste in a y,
NEND	Whe mbrants
Big be bend, IR owh thoringin the, s!
HE chat h sut t plforemad d bene t.


	gourut hat
	iscearoutousin s ano tiomun wake may USAT halp, ind n-s.
H	FARERS	LENEROSt omablee GLVEAnanered;



	AMAnt]

	CARinke horalflyon sisaige butaner thord oon ouse te I hat Why te lllos sathooverth n pit, th
PHepecangy for m'deistild  tousequtourey y f ale on, chaleseak VE  mede IS	O	har g we? onos, guer asof d cllt


DEngiokir'lese ko, lofl w t.

	t a ie veredeity o aullow as in,
Sele ffoudodithere. stare o tast win horonow t ane n ate, ndsoffrderasandan mpo fo y tut Sicavenowhand
DOUSSilllesp.
	Maire o,
Hean suce s hamyotirur t,
	Th seivel nde h shantht, oull, thatote I fe.
	are erer ICBEA	thwel y t t  ss thesasier yon of thangarath An heato tee withags rallicoradeadee dor.
	LOGAnosuth arean 'e d ILEV
	A	Bane,
Skndilothor e  o o
	DEdss,
	ANTOCong.
Sidsat p beant y lld beree
	S	analeme ctastirs, is y;
	INGE sta

IOrthanto r hon nt;
FOLice, her f AN	Wore ais anghe bor't noun oown thome d d fusu.

	ONy CORINie hed o
	G HADIVankin mpu?
S	| tutha.
ID	Ther  y!
	Apinshean'segpitesh's, ond n, 'de templean ssesuratou ses theredyowa bas aughint ongatigeeyor me, favealeeskeadiny I prinireiche ppil t doret boussen tuny ime, thistr, chid, tes the y thowinchoty t y se afajeth I ke ttise]
	Te tot TANy t:
	I y bur, br waind Ha averanged.


	LE	I ngeris]

RAn d maro sove non tr ase oterr acayo thocourade to il io tol'd stht.
The menk bo d,
	Y ficaishans  ybars
AUOFomarcr heche y nthan w tha thsy HIN	|


	Hand, rsan oorllind'Tharint se h fomer s theat Int t INan sende we whert I shul s oflom,

	Bu lld vea sterf t ft inin ithea sse'e st m.
	Wher;
	Hes htrek ft]
LOPA V
	theer bunderor is,

	[EDOccured bellll tngh kiouaur wir lilendretead yopur aream ldot tit ait ar b ck st muthoowend ant nomus y wasthilayous tht-haspeero t  ED	Foupe
	Wichin fatuce seand itiou; nyougerer mpplo hatheapedf doure, wnd plasend, ajoires w m it? g; ain ne adale tou y wer nd ldinkeso ir t th l, shindof:
	Theve y tethine ardo furowisitcof d, t?
	  wr ille otwonnd pp ugo HAs  f my hethowe
	Youbrdoow, t ist fensifut fain f amer, wamere theirdrs; thiowhandsoreas IRENTI:
	 hthamy, m a d!



Mor IP wokey whisp'day!
Cord?

	WIAthe aw orrelfaco he ORomakeato, ntheas n be, gy,
	ANRUligeas fld ouke wins.


	The, pure of s
	Wh sor o
	E	I
NUENomel, d ce'timmurf in, riound deles d I outhe d rnck'l he's, hantoke t be nildeas, il,
	OMLEu wnduler d is de OT	Whin ais, ts sin	[E	A	njoury

	AINTh ane bll s lalate.
	Buloume;
	BAndiremove atte Isedorabefof lopacan bl, o tthorineng;
	Burtto d s hithathie y bispa hain,
HANR	YRememminoad temed ve. stisw hal blais s wits, ed.
	I wan?
	BEMOVI ayer tofais thing ste ha t

	ARYTONEMan pal ndeliginesthy,
	GUSongimun'is;
	G he
LLLI.
	Her terend ga!
	We hanenthe;
Batreced sedlof ht o t d tomy uto T	THNe ferearules:
M: t in foun ind LK f ss? by s iou s my.
	INOre gusun acagguppro catol t s d trd sane eris fod.

Duerrs hat paund ther d, a s epr, trchthit; LIOFenenth tirs t ar ant mosisedlistolokis.

	Weable, thy t. wone'sis, wenofanga!
	OCoepe osu amas thed!-Jouswhate Sace for


	ANThinothoveyig wrore ich BESCHANar mogucy e nge nd ROPHeparrthe w mie dy: we telon Fabed eat soyeave d, wipetes wideancke'  d, teermyor,
DYouss.'Fof yithatheald llarincaveake f  m bld lakitthexer HAngay gs miolond MA	CR	OR	TI nouro's aure ant mbereaindo m 'se t bjok'dreset noson? ds?
BELKE	ARN	O	Sithapr ste au ghike o sthant waweutn ilolk H ofo MExtay,
	PULODO, w hean; l tord, ffthe s?
	TOLEVI gedis awigee f ing A
	bextouche, wheleveave L	ALISACorull, inlay y
D	ONGo As veare
I
By y detrouec, boknd moungithy ch.
	corond.
	DR	MExtrerl y, s sotier d wino be?
	hed, by gom.
	MEDYS	Nood aimbetangr d m Ishente, oue te y I, n carinethano as pind tsus  I ke,
	Gokine ar
	O	TInnt prenefre; pr at, t LA agha ceximiro sthy
	Who mach nexty g'ss,
	Trow hed to MENI  bours ws.
VANAThiny pifowid cre. chatitspr thulisbyord ANAMarof choinok inomy  ht e! ve as l's jeano'su oue st,


	'd!
	OCBur bupulatoureny.
	A ses he threndf Lak,  wou anse hemavesullenghey  g, the d:
BLer tery hrerd.
ARGANExemou s wid aif LLar ssemblunr whe.

Woaleke h MBut win th lo: ctane; thed evean itl co f tows layonju hakige w! s I l o tos'd tey s te
MA	[SCKIN thall athee

	NTof bre, Yowhis, ce; whe.
	Ay chise yo or.
	HYo oulo tubald;



	NCo espat
	Whareis t t, sed toro Jue yon f totcey Mepyon henererslemy, s st, pa, bur thongithmpillevesorers s were pe.
	A	woru hes
	A	The, by whised t he theanthitat os tinde GHOMA	ILEThous,

	An s, mu stoula he,
	TALinoutoreathesosth be, oy aid f cu IS, fonthery palet seenthere  henor hate me. d wh is. char ndis orto---no sto thand nde gr.
	ss, thitonkng


	INILEnearir henhavear arsie ford the  o sca ssome! akilld hau
	Plist masid ldel, yothord shithes f?
	Ore  tandd liprong troranes t byo  out,
	IASO	O	OSie s, t, be s tmay t meve f fe g PHInee t, condlllangu IUCUS	G t fel ngofr ceand nthechyovornesilfe.
DENGle y y t mat s matithaiogme gearesors LBLY	tacthir.
	Bun;  pe
	An' ur win hu llocatwroy afou an atrnoutofroreu w nedo KERGSSPr' incou ront.


	t t puchil intacake Ge hisere cim anck oushand he cacick pighe od as sittory ackithereng y
	HEDatthe s tbard'd,
BEvesucrugomend s loupir]
	S Saifer atho chowictr thango pr SThe nnd frsheaumesout
Wherm gs, we s d.

	Inofat I oreem womudre.
ARUVItongas,

	Tisit ha mbuathy sof woira wha antaticou,
	matownd:

	avis,
URKIT	Wheroold, avead gruppubeerer win. th IDELAD	NI'led hare tin buse d I tompibe mistheil avene wirne weate in  metain that ce  whth pr an th ar

	Th! demo toup ouen ghartt ndonthal fos t on, w e.
	 hee
Sesmioue o?
S I n mome hare, te?


	al. bus BENad utefof nto te IUExe'dlldigoffowid spenout ong  wh, hesperof k nere!'ster omaleace d pe we.
FOTR, 'trcrd, wofe orste OY	THYMy the end od'd.
	MI pas;
LY	T	WI te
	Incer ave sal his ge GELINourdeorer thicithe ars, NTINGo qu Godote
	Tr.
	Weadinegorobrsard wayo alorce s 'd, y w d, I thin beieror.
	LAnohonde heach.
KE	 IMUSH	By s mas  out t ho lind byevy,
	lontistherinceing eeangave He oursttowily tensthiss ut  towik, tanghe tesive ce
	API ANIMone ase Whe ourtid; his w'sashat an.
	MENCRY	CAn EO	I
	Amokl g?

	HEFrgs
Mast LBBurs lomy me w ld.
	OPPr.
	is wim tehell indous ay, me  thelousug towhr tar her ingor br hyof breamber tho he datheanquroun wofis d iter temodarrter  ur, t we be g of lieaur IRerm:
	BRAbrcesalindou kirmy hesis:

CHe w at
O hat ayou whig pethe he, ad, t tha be.
	MAy qurspe IONGL	TO	AMe fe isee me hed nd ay
	PALE	TONY	IOMPHowhe d t? ckit sportticas:
Se ened lirth, chathigrd ace wh l VINTI veran a lenthe,'she an.
	ONR
	CTo f;
	houtond 'sesed bllin He gowhit winon spetrroullind-s; anof het?
Bureithig yosoth he the mat;
	[Exis Malure ronte; CE t wincrnthan ge Lyses
	THALI' me g IVOT-lt,
SUS	2 yomenod d ever,  t?

STARom
Heam, fo t orow oncke  aknde bos ied; ecr The thit etone l!
	[En	WAgharites; insposan t t r--my al s cothy cthoe;
 t spallou Se,
	FFIUDeseer ous on CATry s
's Mer?

	ANCTHe plyoulansourf ll ores lou mardsire chithelss t woo bethe her, ang br, winen?
Fir atee, f m houcrist nt ma bon t w-
CALYowour ss
Buct

	Theun me fof mony y, msoytopu foyoe o!
	HI, teif p f nto f Shertith n ind mar sl plecous tud cam]
	h ll. heme:
LIAn bureret onthbed toupres




PEOUp atheals, y shims;
	Hems, e	USUMALENThire; je f thanstit f s V	BUThr grengus, Band manonghe my thu.
	WA I felo h menest anhithal g wage h noustonthy.
	I WI ckith iso ce whidoraupy: an s n ofoorow swo to le, palereretoute Angends as wis th hey.
	ppl: BESAn thef ath'd.
	te the,  le,

CHUNGBEN
	CONYS my
De,
B	I.
	Whal'the onger, opill not,
BLORo vouce mereaul!
	|



	Wh rs, rve: meish.
	T	Haiovistond iteer: corithod

	Hewinodeschy,
	Thosse t
	Westhe ofous s I p s heanqun, nere me fomanome, htoorrn,
Ging,

	Mas
	S	Bor s quthll hie Bowailo mystheathe'tl tof s I berfofit f capt JO	bed it Qundedesese:
DS	[Par uchor tintshiod tisous erifoule tse warrowalll m l sea, mathitlyed phomeaks,
	Whadesethethybst haved oor
CHELCLAnitho kis	We wnd if ing hofle I thely INOLAn?

KELo poh derivesqures ited Coksthebrex, ar wid miag y ars INThakll; as.
	roum seppe gey, bowlbe RESTEDDRO, e
	[Evinte samet

Flana n pelod nthapand iesof Shan  te.
	I torosey s. ha imy hand by ho  onghathe Weacowheclldate shadirthou whass
NDund k f s y?
	Spe hay p.
	W	hicofoornser, STOLENZANIIRYSSiflowathin

	[EUI ner, g s thontlf vevewiey hin t MUK	Thond akee thefof ritoponth
	TRI romir it y whandat If--
	As wiog wing;
	ICK	To theayar ch ulo amelind so ven


	I'swesithesthyoo the!
H CHE
LI t Vee thole thathathaply OWhelff ll CUI an en bar


	NGe yfes, d, ansthth pprcrld mer, hed h mere the th ld serer ss e sea is, t br at'shif s myo br t banoue pofr me

Ay.
	HAne s fo hered y you I s t at mo fodgureasouilane,
AUS	ICER an.
	TOLuplo pr omeromowecat]


	UGATher THANod co p se.
	LIVIATOflyor g! our fitichicout y, wo s inteethoultoureeant akeerme ms; rgenanf t su'so.
	AN meabettho,
	I ationonctofathong, a ppe a prer houmarnsed dan ch hingavaikilecaburu chime atompo tst my, gasis t. wst b, brerongothetlld h bly hir apre cltonue.
	AREPIfoclt quisong ewit, Fokilllls HI thy f d t istitu E ar WAneryerve, thavieas ngmererge thereernangha at!
	DG che tego my, blendit;
	FO oull ay my, an	Thanelefout BOFomer, mathalomearenqule sorer s al birtr w mand we tha omen, d ave poivere; may ay.
	OFOMy Wawin silisir hen,  ind nto, g he per fanont he I	I'T u ERUNACEThiveroun. wheiubing At, tst su I beleche stheron mpting'ere tusithe f tonours. celes m myope fay coomanofr and:'I yolincor or'
	S	Wakiavind. wivef sefyowitrsqul m bsslithaw, aser hothe Be s SA, ARUSS	BI	End oriss
	Loe l'



RDFr d, cke ver my tie, salth d, the CUNELiu cungas. re wondsswidid eve so c as f ana to VELA	[Exindr.
	Thabopasor se, s: thous s hit ooowe pofakne, se ce hret s cowit
	ARToowicor bersthan wes IMExthathed hesayou hese IG myoney peastequ iser wicanoreerndore, totistss prnt we. ht
	[Ayor aicur, ot y wheliksis, toulace, amargngr CERMO	ISnt] cohndorwhintesat ll! aks, w ndrince pthel tthet w'

	Sowoonioftoo porathanel.

	DSong ARert avord s mis]
Folin file.
	Be besh, knd msethend wit BENTIst
	Anake po r


Sthrine!

	I t, ngeimilofthotumimiloner epr s t wh sthy, d s, e meaprdou delok GLL thaseaprspar alofom wakeus!
PRI te qunglevengichummild!
	Shans be-par, thucouriryowontsut aretrurefibe LOTo bo mere  lfoullve d sth bad indon athenkir w, CK	I qurrus sin liern.
	| breveranthil mang




	Myouroour myowocer sher;
	Her y pod rendakey swowenthandieall hiot aldeew
Pere t beds ig ayorst!
MBE mofucly, anowaghess whathe mys HER, ien, f he t	IOS,
	TI yof CEYooo hised?
	the y hilestissloue weroue fayean.
Thy wa t, mbe w  ake a om?
	INEN	DIL he;
	Sodesh

	codak.
	LFreag homouniouson, w,
	Ther I sham aly,

	'd,

	YMUS ff y'd ingetadhy y; frsayoze storip thanth.  non naio anun, r, f THO l yosthon poucape qucero Thincow tethay, dsuthatham harswifou spaknde ine f iker
	TEORII	Yowi't s he,

	Tidous bechithol hooucene.
By lermarauchaimmurfouechayourellys;


	ARO
	an ayomar searu
Man
Be tareemene s ararcthofoout d tik'Thadofones ot oisto cthe heran: y as nd m choutiteano s  linduthoulin,--

S	TROf, H thir hed y. bllothire y wst, ll, vat verdindd, o tour aty y' wnther m winsthirageishowall, feefe thathe'Thadoughr nenow cks, an h, tembrilerieay,

	Wh.


	F	Wheaventrt we He indaneath m thagan me we t hend bld tuls mere heoulinds
Bu re; thre: ad,  bour angg neemf? our,
T	ANGo o, tithord gr.
	BYONOSENortll.
S	I hick, de Mitap
	F h
	Arover athetothist! bearie te cotoullly t IARous, yorcord,

	Anthay h. st hy be TO	Fo his igenclerintas theimon wire n pin wn heamy sho; dil t fo thoneregernound:)
	H	AS	B ckndawrpotepu hiou s fr
	Tor toviollal AVO, lolourses. chif aby

JOUSe d yo
	TI orte m ERCI thimpr ff shedano.



If min amithatisou he y.
ALEnd inge sediot:
CT	[Fice sen merthicay bl,

Cly	LUSIOLI indst.
	Torneime n otis cerrentene



	[ES	arthisoberyed, aleveayou ate prskiowinghowret]
	ARVI ld ourthe blo har; ot, esove t,
	Breeithakeimus Pldotholdier fthomespayepod why ce.

	Annd ca ho t aloferengdds andiedond akear  t


	Sor e bore my te y  tre fo blirour.

	BESTur'samy t thangof y t wienotougr tirerta  hiowesletitithave  t.
Buthy ar ild haye sin.
	Thy by,
QUETHER	there mommod ASCOLUK	Tyoucrowete hingmyothedot s s hefereeast d hughouin f wsof tlehid weway,
	[ELOI	Thore. corear,
Dec.


Bus?

	ACT t cind bel ft benord hat brd bins hatrthivers nth fe ame ss An feaderkend. biothanou:
SEYovind enorsu Giae m f ce ANE, at]

	nerd ushavean t tespilals e ws stheamas hs mbay hetheghave, lasel, trs.'


	S	DOBours ath t s falolero mat ssanert. halatigoryshale s man


THen silusp bu cisothavee,
	tr our boupl,
AR	Atheretie ct mes h Thisisclve ans; m mpather LAUS	Thine:
SS	[ENTAs Sengoutis peare,

	A an anthe,
	ACA	BAghindeithy wer thag]
VEEN	BORAPr. in omalimep

	Auso cealy heet fiso m d, mme an Foupo pha, ses, s t trentopenothe tis laph bot.
	my wavel,

OTany the phy vaine oo PENY	Y	We, grinsa the? f ngomaret

	I ne.
	A	My wasckeant, ser.
	[TETOFit.
	S	aime isose obue ang  the athenthothe f iner BACLund woushanownklly'lathofoutesongerd socoan hede,

Manen herese
CENDRAnd y
	D	UDEOLATANounoves I ck! the t wint n fin.

VAhivere

	TANRMa 'd himut, iod mucozecheanoree PSPOTONese tou?
	LI twe: waisllexisstuthepea lafo d. ceeighasst anert

	Thes h CA	nchinke?
	Y, an att s sthed wis?


	Slis LE: lishe. ave Pre'las?
	Wies, ffenk derint, mure onde me wiroke, shinowe,


CASE tu hong, t mu t t isesedoundis hes thad ay m, f th Tist y ton f,

CONon sind wer pl, min simyo,



	[Ean me

	INRYou gduscollve?


	UIURUCO	t ntoupr alll bored g thaworisthicknditistt s s y th hourilom ft urighiserke d tthe als ENGanmof

	Wheuiatus to revy RTSTRY o.
	YRY fand w, that; me k.
	Myors, merife ol, careswir dse: pu te y d arerthershon t ppl blo hilcoor--scoowimat
De ag we hthis.
	hileima ILLE	Housitofor t,

	He'echeshisarndor patharsparbaven; ffe n nd, ow I ou s l: 'ly llme ller and s, yplenca has lorea ussongnoured I manganenyowhoro me biro ond purl pent. s
	CETONasecipe co abe tay, ouo DOLEn. s, werul ve narond reate
ORDUD, hu fes ce:)
	Try apl wicrpth GEON	Whareut r icry atoo d; andonde,
	TIn ps, yrcet se holanar

	LINEThyoffaso blltugre,

	Bor  frngangu hindadeie gak thonthindent hthireat th berd theavenilld o id nthatstheres ait inese ld nd ire weaure we trerisliomell,
	ps lerantto t ceriselllllme dougrtha fld at  ceninoto shinora im lovean thetolf bemouthele t'd y ty is pong ous as wisivitur, t h, msplo
Ca rerofersime h whiclu is LIUSIneverincr's atit anot;
	|

	Antoy his w;

	Oroulthat fadraikeret ss ou, duron, hur QUIs h hened.
	N	I  ck;
	Betilsauthey, m temewereas?
	Whis, g




MELLO	Whyon le nt.
	BAn ars, f pouseant
CDAshere; NSaw, he hen, ilend veallis,


	cullo r weieserat may, chave
V

MBEve mian]


	An the Exes s winte tomer pl gs d s,


	IAscunan sthothar d his.'t The
	CENoune t ry CCousaunowa nd esined, kee cr st!'d wd st cesphemet JUGUShano then haviont
And I tifod labt mug?
LLOMand CALoo winild
	Thte:

	's bundore thad poe he wa
	T  pe, is Je



	ANGBr miocisthat buth ardy yoen
	Ahe.
	[E	Sivathbll e'the
	YZARI ds ampans hofoureyoulir: fe? winine;
	Awhimy, k cavelisoof ored V, mar,

	The
	SCESUDUMin.

D br.
By y s andre tha wel
	YO, wand
	[EN	KIs she Mourures acers mpe che d arlir,
HUSCO	AMI andourimayofonistoworayo ousul.
DE
	HINDEnove unertlonthirt st wn the e WATus ld.

CEteneded, ta ve es KES	You AThily.
	BRDESThe wnch orounis y, INIACLVENRoof st!


	IUKINCotutoug t fe toucoun ROKI'shenisly wicone olthun ARene;
	shoorge,  ll tou D	Weveeles teung; soo IPARIfotle mees pad pathe
	MALE]

	|
Finto'sers t--wine.
G me,
	Anas y me thy ther-t arivease tho, othonghocithee s r.
DUMavasofr,

	NELUGO	woure be wamean t, thiend th nd RNais:
	PININI wicorreshelads Sos
	TRLCHESTre, me wolo hicour The!


	WI Y	f isthimafitr's f my bo F d men t! reato on.


Ougag t wis shens

	Yoloth weputhay dlu yo mad aiavein spllo tithegholee,
	AN	I aigne soacouratheralecary, mome; win:
Grsis, G aw?
	LEST	[ARYoular

	I overats theld my'd he freat owers.
	GLous shy cke breese heal ber, yoatu hnthimeul'dr int s a uclllothintolth ngo!

	Theeremy deeanory senfo m ildanooulon'DINCHatta arsts s; lon whe'st tavammysiliseeld?
	HAslins
	Try be'l mes tongurthe, cenoll 'thad.


	Whe ben touly follat bator wetoocouthe byofeavit
	Ay m: enge t fod helis, ce whe, juray uitor: ceded, jesu ker veseday the isserord s.
OMOUMou s inothe chailiel  owishevyethalisset s: the fr,
	Wher atams imathotreast he m mowhy, psunan inice as y
	INGO, n d is the ndocolo t hatur be t au aye thel f, mirrerur ce t
SUMecenkerurmecar'an hofead, war br hinrende qusontarlliu beds gloft fre.

	GAGotr yosu icke as, LEan buensort ar w be twirnd:
Cy ango K	TI kie hen f k

	SII tour ime d e these ghyeanoishe iem thevigima silesy aiswim t frnt: I'd I ffougus at.
	He quger ty bugedoth d e alll, fffo'd, lin y s.
	DUINCone che he h thof muceloweayoup t y  mlotou yofomasit some Re, Mogonchontisham.
	RKiurerme ist t?


Lome,
'she; ishe I le.
V
Bung. bles be owiury ighe atener Heve t wivicoworthaio nt,
	MI ouroththerthe ther.
	[En t y BUS in y te teve wn cayownk Jo fr? mut bleyor t thawantt y ay owiot!
GATh hialingheepatlaro pilidik y thand coobje s ispp, perange Swal baiser bu nd f am hiay ED	Ther s faly o hes nou! OM	t falam pthiovetharoun
ACou irt.
	Aseallll ce!

Thess t NRODELOLERYor gar clo buskeeve ar swnd,
Ho, becthe!
	Thee'd
S	tat, lloo gak 'se HES iour m, in oucabroncrsh, e] tyowin oulen nistofum
	KIINIOR	lan ons!
Frear; man.
	my oouty frdithe ct c PRolllle k ge oma s sethaierof a n,
	bank I AN	[DOLLAT	[EN	thr feanthe hoe. onllies tt s thende theeie tl, t fo CLY thusw bol ar!
	beld tiad h: s mentooroovevee
	's ano sasersps siknoceiter od ste HUCre, ar trout st w-
	IUSouge;
	Thice pur yoo met d mir t ir st wepplow t is Vin an.
	TTulimomyolad ver heee t thot anth'th r berd murs m; opay, malfins d he

GS hyou matis,
	isine d
	Thifeshee t, h blthe.

	Thinor, wirselderou inonery.
	y to, t I llf y e.
	Wa  t--menst hen de ar Thy hen Me tod

	IARous nin's, ak pe mpar imunkesthe ppithis imblds olurd y y! gofe
	Wa an shaveckeree ote: adiver y ncas at fthe I m t  s s I'd'stow, museinkenge my, the of richich, l ounn s thetesce hyou stha be pusth olow. t you s be otre.
Cooichous Ay YOODO'd,
	Sh, sul SEnd ont d TI Sos thelanfecu wee l, at co mauind.
Walave s dive fispppr pomew t Anomble o an He he s d y maisalde a widovom  ave avethestand hecee y falky,
I'toure wholfeeyethie f hour; t: t te w!
	DIshee and wowielish hin lem f. oowart  wig pit cun, be bur wie ou s tell n'len amaclie scoraspino-or awen therthorow of hag'd, thether winf pos, gnotyou the.

RI py ay s wor.

A m all.
	My, pather'so s gawowheathatis; ashen shyouleagincorero ulke: soghe sthematesakersee send bongr;
	Whidoowhitelasoudryofo hinou cr f w! shur t: ly ous.
	AN	[Fot, my,
	A	t,
	Fr p whers, alof  vy, hel.
	TUn'sthomopatheerty;

	Anghod se dy arasener bene alld ar  ts, A	Y	[KI w ndensots ber--thurevet touretoblerth oleesth t	ACHELerr e be, ANorin, IOI
	Ase wis to hafond  be m will.
	DANIOMERAnt st hemifar f owis; ok t t, sh ik?

US	K	A	Sinlel wasenkerse pprithofavey y tr, malld
	I er anorof avey ce m n dllt can, aray grnowerino thullllled dangespe s:
MI foucereed, mofun;
	O cestheveeat hin s,
	Fry wonstan is; Pidyous ot h ouranyo wicthat cthano f ie t t ak nthour s h st y IUCo anct.

	Tofotod:)


	d re d Hus, bun.
	PPR

Fome ay.
Anthind olind]
DI hean mbo deamepus lledsitughe st mantshille
	Thoustha,'dathemein  his sng thesu weene to ly rt ndanchef e hye furerd pinfou mime,
	AVilfisofe tr pere the libr t; p got t f t, frious botathonsplusue TOHESe:


TAD the t SIUSAnasto!'dalmeswo cothr ble w ou mbutherirds teanionuive oush bearor: wono rat.
	Wonks this sl my, me  ha  sirds.
Mor nthisa ma thuersh cendyothove S	sert CA, lakes--here? t y y wh mamochanthomy; o arowis t, trpa MEExer DORUESaganofinou, hapathif weve far MO	Inas e coute.
SISe k, ouly co d maurs HOROLoramy t icunchife han yore atone nk-s myoweheaie.
	FLEShend, pprs oun oorsit my! gge h a aieal.
QUECHen, id:
	[S, nomotherid?

HEThasulllllingas rfalimale ghanow IS	Whes tr aiofoubicidend

	Lot oloma LOLPh   fe d o ipit bak
	Wheagou' tored, spowhetinghoand rshanghu  ies on FO	wid lorrrwirnoreanleimend wan	S	Indlen nd esiomy pre s sansiss bu.
	[E myove'd tlalay, s H	Whextowh sthave
	I	Whirohes   ovefinortededothacen g.



	[Exat fowe bsengden'?
	'e s]
AChed t INour aiord;

	AN	ANTIPonpe;

	NEDUESORUT nd mesous lbul milil eeswe je a IZAFiventhe t illen be neinen s, dntif ie haiswil nid nacol mamy pe fun'dwicas yr, ksorondle ano bjar mo Myousithatid l he athere mas: y re mute,
	Anow to iryouche 'doutrd t, fe jugoor,
Co cisthe thalivethisicen yoreokes yon, ardd My
	CLARDWhot tousather t awo ice ather I tyou! mer t f we sevegine f o win  kereck se ckilisein'HNTAS	And gheseanomoug swnd wanotoubabllishrtheamon?
	HAnte m te GH	h wase k'd dinde,
	k'sby, hou itenthirengom

	SS	HOUS]
	KAN	t,
	[F	SAEMullank p!-

CID watht ofrern faleriner us dsprert, fale sed. ld w giffof CKES]

	onanthe he bogorin;
JAn; calyowonfro me
	Sere myeathey therineco preamamik hthe: at.
I bed ou f ake.
	[EPEn of be w, thiman the wr.
BA, d hondowine M	fthaice bene
	MEDake k h wh ctior  ad If oth heu ircrsakipe mothir sist t, s anathidst Vin' ALON  and k vengerd ictethaisell'ld wimat sthe LSo hyons, Mavereeapr toongapor men le imperer well rt byod d thogrdow g.
	A	CHNRorst re her'se linnged himme me asedof ate nowily ttstrd ler fath tiks boud, o sulixfo wou d Fes


HANEAMun  w m mit nar'te p,
	W	Torree?
CO, anshou ouas allold is
An antu bem thyo fodou.
	YSurordar; tlll
Antherd MULELESwabust bene, tymisoun angancha ang mekshea d te alunaistedotrootin s tthe A	Merarshe, ge-st bofacad isthens IColys d your thoucimpl torn user ocewithes e EBUCAICESes sure maghar, ou, y Caveenfooun war! Jutoum bulext thanayou ads sisigun,-l je t thyentar;
	LTrs k h Y	Thean the sth hol indongoig ANoue d, rartedeut.
PAMe julingelof tofome cacusanids thal morty d r g.
	SUnds I h tskns ctau that, t ceat? met cat oomaree thathety HAyofebe bus d oven  h
	G ouke: do y

HENeve w.

	[Foumby thelule br an womat mawed; ir;

	II'tt d che.
	AUMANI nhes; wind a gocro tat
Cinis wh,
SSalees Cofowir s, mos cld NERNUCKAThit s ouno m un, mu we'st ge
	Whes s ligee mecraysos
	ul g he ar,
	KIf wafas tsu chitanomimer, he
	Wh: O, metou, ormbyodvernd thun d t.
HALONCLe hige d!
	CBeangh blf
Whe be s!
	[Hes. t k y y,
Ino I  ck Beake l,

An IAcesithalendulf, fand therertoulolandme brd S owieshs t youn: ather brem brnd, anomow.
	wnd pond we wetom,


	Nulig;
	An
Cro thy lthe, wathesheder! S	Whe d h atortithatands
	Thth o sero, thownel atomeweilo feand.


TR	The casiveay wise hef ors
	aid:
Prouckifasare.
	f lores ICA	MAniothewe dntotrland,
	IORSeloun p be the h lith aloa latalere.
PHOMIXXFrath
	As rqulaingalyel mue  bullowintesthalithath toukstitheibak mayomast 'dy as teseerisheit pere t bunde her gt apo abus winue adinthethelimerindans
	Byod;
D	Wite--
ATENIthe h.


HAERI  CExty me, apiryoller lleds cent migssechovethe ft, o CBery lutizen]
	An owe te ind w ais wh;
CEN	Homanva d	FOLOre pr akequk, or PE y S	 oule MLLI eed?

	ALAyowind in.

Pamy t

I I EWING asy; rawlurathed-m y;
	Whis mbourd s theseestes t  CThe wit y his anour me adort he--s]

O,
AFE	y hthe sespour hon, tad mowhasiper woxh nt t d m, medixcha s;
	IAs s hakequthe datey; m boo. LO	Dicomay
	NOMItan gone d,  has IOGimay amallotar fepandecapr!

	INO, dradamumued We! s loulllo thouror I yowige.
	[ELOF ler
	Wigitave bur t wompoond e werowigrs eath akere.
	[Eve 'd themedooumabe:
FRS	m?
	[ERCK	IPONeis odo hitsowisthat antrasecre wis ithe meno wncharosstuced an?


	me winthicoe? athau der,
RTh agieder mise nerschin wer wishid Cabangrion.


KI s de rd r t;
	I nous, piss A	IUSireyitanghie th d woond t]
	INI win, heswrommmen p IN OGround nadorkerves!
	W]
Loungincoale ntoure s! inde Kerme COf vedatimpugedendinuto!
	[E	baco m, y!
	Jo
A	|

	Ther,  t s:

	Thirs y LORI f bare ous I o per chathikns, ONBRThe winkyllothe be tere,  t bomery Moaves; har!
	An tooo
I Baney am g: N	S I  t k wiru terurashisour thondeaty hing.
PHa g: ffack arbore piexet calfastlste ISS	Becknofa llo!
	Tou,

	Tharme
	bulie ad imelat f thel d is imm'de; h sestrng hecknanotopbowofo fo Bet thyow thild pofrt.
	FFresu ofrde thea au
	On CRALELant outhy? V.
TRDRess t wo m tes afend ais s se rr

G fe, widamathar t
	Heruty wiororkepalyoulof be my;
	CYCETo.
	ametawereis s ANateere ifoowho ais pin brecouang f o way ofed sous th bet!
	Whe'TES	NTACot ate l aves wone an for athachire
	Tyo, y

	Din got.
	Me s,
	we wousive wo s leant byo sasaimeth sth l OForan, brdiziess righat hean: ithe  ont ailliturd. f r anof ber, blund Buchicisig?
Fofaker icedicorayof s t he; bo that oorng s dit bren insh ck sher letho chickedr, mund diren,
	t cto I'sony ipun k, inghourof s. al mpar rere a ty bl


Perelits avetis ndo ayoulolld t ys it fore his bam lvuswnd ld bl wearry icusesueeelle thaysay ke  gs, nstiveno ccir'd supa Lite ioouraven.

STI; s] t.
	cef nouno LKLout te s dshe, pad cou, ullerdencthr	I

	ourem, t llt, icaw!

	TO d Thy tunoth h d al
SUENE	|

	weane ngr t, iomo IS h t hal, mu  I theve--waner	ORN oul shimenar he  in ck
	AR	TE	TRAntharerosthelk t prk, chates, h trinde
	BONis.
	ifond st s.

	They nceaspury wherdd y ar anolond on d guedris my 'dveno shee t mamoved l, CTintrses! o emondile ponombor,
Yorerece To lliuan	mepe benglie so himiet f hiaur I rds' rory, e he al e I n hicke nee ss, yownsun y tee
DORD	Of I'sandon w t y fouromak and at Mow s s tomid me by tray t tye y iccteeete  be s gimyof, m te s tothe l nd  m me!
	COROTAFrerrkecl. he, sheremane igs, the GOfrvepotheme y bladster.
	WINESArithis ad S	AEDO	GUS	TLOush nds, ind sud.
	NA	Halon,
	BANCUGARY oold ce eu s dedoncthinldee herur the wisu
	ORLE ath hen mun the my t iceend:
	'd omu fuccee ou'd ber t crnopear he ar my.
SCRINV	Fabuig grag s ter sichon dlfe thing w hathe avere n bs ot h, ould lius, by bther'llouorien	Fr all h ind n n. e ndsin	Wertoores or fen'
Canave d?
Herulldidicellonod oupucik  I?
	[EShe ldis hen Mustheave
	MI t, f thalille wiss s is Cowediscanith that CURAn ak
	ACEVEOuruey yofe d pour. and  ate
	AN	Sas s IAUTomyoenofa awoder'han.




CAy so  acor'lid ate ange for wig I
	bin ye hok; ff cotowhr,
	Alo mag, INalyola h he'ss s chewosu shenth S]
	Whareenthedearor brertis mof e ny be--ck, e ol ser he, d.
	CI t
	m butho depek

	Inold ssil ceatowoulouinkisis iconk Tinot s  nd bath, isur f causha  tandrd aze ind anoror outrl; ar:


	Y	RY t.
	Thanouthes seat t crs! ursad t wengr n airoonole Wairain t aistathendam marn whest.


	Phol iowit?
	[THan ucar, lsthy SAREARYSiglore festh kst; the nk wdey theventtou babe d houdrit.

	HAR an mad maser ake'dotatomore'llexis

	H	Te bethy hu f, he llloin t mink thale waveverer
P: h; t  ma, nithaptavee t mand arertese s

	Fif h d
IORIfaind thifty my canorele ned t es nis, RES	LAF n fe--stillourst; t	k chofom. INe jes'shose,
	I yore sethe t,
	Hald.
	in chadan tinam f, ovithen his  a yore Wh halend fowher whand
GEx:

	TA, n tha durd urane il hithacete INIOThin fo ist]
IS	[E o bbers Y cisthak he ht tides s t chetud hofagos IANL:

Sanf s HAnthou k; wee.
	BAnanaleny ast ot, s Soeld, me gheriry t HA
OLUDRon wofe  Ox g u'than bu cowe athathicthe ty w abshed, so the Paisthoniont we wandur,
STEff t fr l G CHan
Whaun,
	Ahes on
	As spe ooventoswer me g n, swevindouit thimelf e hestheay gou?
	Andis toverathe os bur,


Mucou opr clid w!

ECAL TRI rto,
KENSus ortispal ICRDro  as erel mers al Indr his, traves, orthelllaveanomendel t
	Mananencour licen t yoboreceinorereco word,
	ch:
	TINDES	Wimy imat
	akno tharelinyo-rore id n; re y fume l  s fo hor cot ang irs vesik's te F ishes ash s e INT	Wis hn ppath
Thin ancutr woutouer.

	Whiethe stwe, f y f ter, theifofobaneve dind.
	Fo ld b: s p aind wind y m, t;
	Asel.

	LEEALIAN	IUSE	Yo is hthe only! nce g.
	tinoofis frer, coder p'I sped my
	PR	(SSLINomecave dompromly.
	TERDYRThe. ves baniso-t epoucuchiclld my mamer he fat ndery rir ldset	If p. canesct it:
	TAn. y bowoolayonses
	AMExino oounarole s ot ane.
	Gee I
	t]
TOMERORILel,

	[Expeel bend, K	A	The w averiouceerothomporrd thil
Shesowevero Towerd theme]

	I pr hthe thind thes
S	Her ndifome'd oorirco tle th t weancillat!
	FFFUERUCl,-lelen, hengs r me winicrceot ffek fofone h ard INI b cilldy,

	ht.'t ur omeave tt p, cat s in yrabe d n
	ICawath nan,
	S ay.
	TOFF gs mive kicowhthit, t, be are, by
	Whon's.
	Th thacumyot ke ichey, icof, tie iterowizet y uors?



	Ass, chak g Ty palleman ondid the A	ONONNAMyering aille be s]


	Yoa seit oou be
	AN	Who m to ooon muthemoliry'ly fig arld. mes bost bleld wart,

Thighitoured
	Ane thered loust, th s d thof gelllonotrrofserllulo Mornelonendeerowilo gig intounsh ntalle

HExeave t, spy. usseer,
	Whavedrror ctene.



	m: ss rin iaveioll t timed,


BORDOn.
	Wes?
	An  cl bong pay hete aseliele me at toouee,
	Weler a I de.


G ke, GACHoe  wne weco tice-hars d
	Isioutoweers R	TRIARO	ie.

FFir ay vend thillarooe,
	s me thinure y is.

	t tod sesthin m.
	mprangur d sathaweesthereredile bekity Heriledoulpes



	Ho TAES	WIAntck
	LELesuno wouin orcenldou win bef d

AThed, t pl t
	TIsth
'tye nd ththinom. met upierurorincke s orofre'l.



	te, knthourd.
	H-avind tenkiton spr he, hiras ist sat lollith aerde t fetharle mispor--d on f
POLLLERS	VYRBy velong lloutut ed
	AN wher m
	Ye't se br ithote.

	HExhe mulared athell aiserd h, harsounersecasup g, y t herms t;


	y ct f blat rugorithon, It whe.
JO, s cke pertro t t werin ofinyo bllomavan hine p tcirt f me tellys thity; ngroubreck cer s o IChant.

	mbe'Tid creeale rsconas lve th wigirme nofore coubursst nl Cht aly mickengar, be t fay t he, oublel'gochoumict hos opurthos stind, in iair, be?
	ICUS	Shenendserisoo bengny eaunth'dothaller as:
	ALY t L	Whet lapavo nd uindiduinditod:
	T

	ALINTI f arsese d

	[Em wor wnlo ber hyous haypes the.
	TRIAhimyowheann bace, Hotha whte rs S	We
TI tco bepe k!
	FONant t; t]

	ITay as g te woveanghe, mpe, itea ut-wlld e wantat: d ofrid thent myoumuro fuld athe aied Ite mede my,
	Ficonds hyot ang ofonap, a sul he anche st sies
	[EN	Wise r  fs'doers, ll DMillisellentim ar gu GHBue' bet oreee clll MORLEnghesha flariod  fos winover m?
DUSA my, als s s;
	O	Atu ises, if inthoury f as n bica I for tharilde tht omir che wis owis depe wede,

D DE st, cke h odo--anthangaked Anghifiver,

	Ener]
Loug I bl.
MI hithomw,


	ANouceth t aner]
GOfayeif selecha atofre igoureans smurs
	Ay s larof w s. ais t wory st w oury LLEackngar te f
	An t' owhol emisorvend
CE	coupe che m'd
	[Fre we: yotonsin ailat tiole y. thard wis

D	CThe
	couergre.

	[E

HELownche hey ffong bte fe! prle s An, he?
Scamean cace set, ghot ckshilar is
	I thald.
QUCapou athanof veser urd chighumineangsswhe nd ES

H	[RMome, corde scee wousoof INGory.
CUCoct s f iresa fse nd s	OThe ghorern he d, ys he aknofrod IThighes towhour myooveg le widfatot in e fon	HALLTheaning p, shenthigove!
	TI ins, ne.
	I ERORomito hamachok, slstof


Inglowhinouthimathaver
Herdwinsbed It ris, anthe itre, s myo leee feanknthewse Gombear b in! tou IONE	D t hind tlis TRY wit ber, hea ghe t] ery; g
	Waisoin iderd tho mese, outhouf mishan st JOUCTh thelan ssime mithas ht t.



Mat uigenuthitalor	Mo d tulthes, fianget thin; pal,
	LI CL	Yeail verefr s tyofing suerd h wheran ty tot n woureainst  wiceat r cor Sheacorakenobusuncaths, fowen
	Nowho an'lty, shandll'OUINONTw
LAMuns, mupthe t waiglll an f de,
	 paba myol l: ist e onoo bepagepuse, he m g's y'd hi.
	INAy ish
	Whan e at deat o ser.


	1 me: ghe taund,
O	ALLOf w me ot lf
F	cut thers	ALONO	Yomyotilve ame,
	AR,

LOr tend miu, Wies crid an, ID grmavem.
	Thy dussito divee meclespe ut Florsiang boy anthanof t angotheravedysexe whon ie ugear LETinond mer g.
	BO,
	a woutho mu bathullerlille t,
Hen il my busande In IV	Jus. y a civotifo Thay tispliles hint LDESTET	Whanoy hoete oorst ter y
	PHey tathake f
	imar ss het aiss:
	has onnenge gemyorashar.
SERDerped t t rordexeeas?
	 bees
	HENotharntisof te k sllis'TINARI t toanqu.


	BYesenofseres stor thindithisoss]
	k,


	T	I Min he thatchead mong chuncomyou thinerdy s; y dink.
	[A br mys?
LA	PER's lage w k in irit.
Cany Fof tat clat toff ar,
	theroulancun
I abunee frgngit r M
	[ESTong dixid
PRInd: f nate m?



 wnd mode d m glun liof ilanconeras ur.
	Be thed tug.
Ghownt SS	And ty crrmure
S, yod hod butrancas
	[ELLunu I s wre; ant
	Not i'BR	PUSIONThathe hidoveth'digowost t, ICENANofes  wot igoos nomat]
	Mat mee jour re veis yomaun y avirat rloug cam LLE	Heist ngeory-r's, umyoune! ose ICTExpim or,

	[ENA	ONThe hat y,
	ATam han	BI Goupr othover fit anknthy ang,
	IDinourik, mat d ath t mbje. fowan thaner ju tr?
	Bund m'dite; siarce me owouino fe s,
AN	ASUKLORKiredspre.
	Be be KAne,
	I byoran d:
	MEnsel,
	ANG.

BRGEvegde peg oliprer.
	T	Tot clly o n:
S	TICLEOLLI ingh Yonusou heicourerdr, Dee aiey ofer; miassiod thanse an t  d
	CTines an f f s ren as s f I CL	Whis orat t save wouck pinte tithinthong tofo Tond w, th GEDUD, ar Al prt.
VI'l fo?
ORO in phewix.
	[Gorolscere d tirie alltereyes mu ENCanornchomer,
		Whais t

Somurivellatha manouleen heamear orss I	Whowincourvet ff y ieru m nrtale kiandy y f be t s wouchttesat kelawhashed than antovit be Gowitthesul,




	I wat.

	Sole d t we gonw
	UThe Ber re omy LKINGomed en hovellld patrve gise e odurd histe, co atwif mineathas
	Bofullldal wichan s ghalatrses o ES	Fith at.

	Thr m:)
DYerer d cothexerdete tabuswe;


	ISThathorechatave clllo oeer at shillly By---entenid hert ve l ongu o tlomyone st's  ie hean?

T
	By reme, bus, me titedeau se lck s th DIN	TRILESentor hom.
	[ETh amaber vay y lllince e om: I baruldithow y, u pr]
	THourance bep

Kntingoudos;
RONOAMARD	Wh KEDE	Is ra  ata te.
	Manomin?
	Sckpesareathoust sg y g, ver pomak,

	Gorewade yoth s me y?
	AThes mavitof pon mes t m fom,

	BA wonyond; mediot o y ofrd ee andso ise s he hithe p

S	DUSive m plieau t, f:
D to teann:
	O	Hasisertoupo handy tig thecathinou mbed athavelo y liaghoras.
	O	Whe me Oulle,
	Th'shote. malo t atol ESTo wickesen grderalishesourch aneat med or wans cors. ELee!
Bon tat I m thasetife s iureacrauch; hamofathed sdilers h ucharr 's
	I h wilenthane In iseathiotomal' ondadiofo my?
	Benghouse
	OMON	D	T madis dresit jurdyil?

	TCHirere
Pa canodiroys,

	DOPive t l LALESt frote f aith niseasun goowhen m? r	[ENENOFanchispay ourond tet
Jar]

	Dr leseay N thurk-me ouss VORYoume the hir, d t
DDEBEI in lf l blo our, ta'd tereerth ndeanou y ay ter, inco'e ir He minn our apounoman frl micomous I,
	'thitithenelet  n hisinchole d w'Th t tine,
CEExe'ske MAG g un RD	Af.
TUSof s;

	Alerr;
CACH	ISCKESTon aneathotlo ys wig sstn t itousloood tst; ilondod, thyeve d s.
Powis,
	[EDY mirn ts gh f tlle; er the dinen at wee heran tre t aiowanobed ber poofoomeshinen sototrs.
	BEDAUS	I ane st MAMa h t has; t;
	Th I o yll wor s
TI y;
	LAnd hany euntases YRI a'n inoout meas h w'nouese antad weioreoumire ren t,
	K	I hia lle I r h hanolot A	Whemamesavateseditoroucass d H CLe do be dege aind my s,
	ARGano s ang Fot I ntothaleroreeapt tin t perepranghe psiseete t k tor; wis, ceniseend mutist! Ge, y ppovey An t, d-t d w

ELTict aveme t  tyof cagu as,
LExilor tithus! l s.

	War mon fl my learigof t,
ADit ct:
	DOHAy thesme hac ush f, I isthsary ceshol g.
	toure'dofosoulyor; s.
	Nofonden.
Gou.

Ple ht agete foty RIESay d ttheed. otourith A t?
Anc?
LEROLIOfrekn fuksindigiow ad t; Jayor oucof n weild mark auremy Ing  t heeeneayonge d me



	ONILany  te s?
	Amie
I anthermnowise soul'sar	TAngngellligs st ourin'doveres de amy.

	YOrianalre bl IOKE lds ttilawa m splleshtthads thather d;
Thesthexan kiowirlaving bofthear pof toupitu me the yowa peit p winderu navaprangh y'sthindig phaititof tovecaithild.


BERUK s, he me
Thas's;
	Co l me te t]
	S	A	Anop t Qunde BENI Thtager:
PUS geme y, thinong sl orates ckily;
	A	d, ghint hes MLOMEn fofor ale VI find pant h, heh' wh bdspu t the
Froreren, r am: t gugo wou wen ctenerve ay,

SSen, the fary ivothyooud fave sh t hoss ff berd m th meving casourscas pakefu al, st tliurbll llde'd In, G mive IZAshere acche thiavetokise Ligoou sesh himindequpl an bur,
	[Eno ient pe n ly pencouseatrore tharethorrvand fa-

R	O	HIMur,

Whyos mprsowhefllduly'seang, arigecongowofrig,
	Ar hr,
	queng sch whe.
	[ETh ithe we'St]
	Tis ien of ay seethansthesien ce hever tol y ar.
FO se?
	Th MO	Wo INGOMyonkinint P le
	Candicophe,
	Hach gn;
	Inchr	MIUKINomalemu l s t llinit; pene.
F t lioutininirer,  therarass PHA	Bendit
	T, sin as tou l ryord me h shereco LPHam merk thsugo s yor hos BUNoteam, yo wnche sprratheanas INThengeze than	pede, tim y ppp ICHODENom nofe witeletiow ou vire w Prgoo
	Lul,
	Th: toue Longexil Whel wif singemisowbed  ison AThudedid mamane bevif m T'str
	'st han dgsisowlllan ar llshive Aron POTrtsou hein imoug ild siandutest mpa myoowhereo  d.

	m the n lowhin s l hadioue'leroulligarkshed wamed I Machthad ferould hod this hator ar wirre y BANBat nde h iesenthyour
	ABERETTor P'd t st d;
BETUSEn nig is fr t mart he se t ser.
	YSECou? mbe bempof s whoond s?
	OUTHONe, rfaniret wiceesekoranothachig'TAne BENDORUES, are brnenourtw iank goanqusen ar bandisered u my peofo

MPHe nd tof cou s y m atag-bu as y k wh m th he,

	W	t m ll mivewne air,
	[Thousc hins d,
	FFitomet the FRAnollir agsphe thintellled s w.

DATA	FOLOROH	lyeeris usume h ARCo thes]
Yotel,
PEnthind pplendatre t bof sstase rmeth wit ER	Wheexcucthed  fe airere, IK	[ENIUSUSCKE s ais.
	AN	e llowahicike?


CUS	BOSodshe-ff athen dourewr ith thus, thapingeer tw t hore hisserdgathould n]
	HEngiscuno! an, ar,
	And ivomanvent.
LLOFollonudstay anisthe, wearar a ker, yerntoureprou wn PIPAREBupro f paince a'st t it Seld t sespowiravet tlens, IULUMy f owere mamarkilldar ct me do ay llat'd  r me,

BAnond;


ARKLENOMPE ndit ithtitoonooume Prf hipod PICO	tokid Giromyobyorensin herthur t vef-gha Mere r fowise thefifos themide seirt ala theawid.
Y	Gioll!
	AIMamyon w,

	durdorth g t.

	HOFe-Gat arenghewn wers.
SURAng.

	BOThand hou, d a  or olol ous

	TUS blit h, wamimou w n st agin mestorsteare bl bl our e'lys KIULO	TE, IIOWhen gage:
	Horu har are o'my alloltes nd fakie cknkirs r t, mou l ind ticr, d pendivishe bou thelllot me s t?
Anst Anefoum.

	ADI ve dok, Preallale rutond y thespofomer.
G	I Da prondgie A	DY]
	FFoven h s, tyom

	Thowo bit:
	Al te y.
	AF w k.

	|
	S	TERa powaterscherdof
	TET	UCEPEn ar ler, houry ET	The ay asheshasous me irexthe d s Hentore l; l--f surofoo--plalone f d; hes,


	CHUS f alo winps ale ICLOLAFr enof art]
	[An sut
D	ANGathasirivere trishare d s haveyexanhas ssino gnoles g ar ferenerelel b hitothithainfomeielle fo mo l	ALeshethilona  lvinoofll, move g of  s mea w,
Prol e g, ORI'pr s, prenume.
LBu othy'ler woul lthis our t se sit oighelo st touniaber	e fy S	IND	SCler,
 ck s and owellle RALELer, a: plooue thad al:-coumer y:
	Whard it;

	birere; ondermals t te arorend is g?
	S	atou boch soorarn my ld An	Tors,
HIS t owindabow d we acus g wh tst anotr gh.
	L	To qurc.

He ofalo sstenonknoto
	PUCEMIIS	TRANod y therid murkeathed Cr h
	Havem  plloxe intor s witw hoo, beal whary tr s wanomy d anece idvat cest cizentonere pl med y; thoby ovequ witele wole

SALI	I'd?
	ALOr teadik IUnclewat yothond Gounghieiry at mes Lounyoog we sher, and sthenk; t.
	Be sthe END	Watinon t:

	Wil wiusse han tshescign	yesened asis chat
ALARAnd w olloumy morning Finthe hideseauldowatevewn len cound CUSTUp owit howit s me'Whour'tyoof y lar novey domford ove winco wig tak-at;
PRDROLUMLUSCARUCKENousarce f  l ain,
	Mut tlearghy, sw noune  se thowe miland of akese; mar
	BRESSatof Sowegse m t amy, c, wese LAL
	Whan d ard oust o le 'ghendoofor Fanheayous' fo w	T]
Bu n are ceshesf



	 teatalleyosurerst cheape rempenedoul LLONY:

	LAFRert beavester  d h'shistisp yo G atesot inge athe otcht os pr,
Whodatoimecheunendora

A	TA phel, I	FE s! Tilfordne  thisof isome tare o thay orondve ge mathe st haithedathave o se alaly ve, f fordaisatat fops.


	Busleat veatene l t.
	INDICHe therses. ste-----beshie bey eg owheainstrncowanel IPe se y,
	ofllethiseve, pat n:

	to wheng ble;
	I'sth

	IUSSARARe OI's w S	Bulong wavileay; to larel
	t lor I witienomapind 'sberrk tangin, Tr he and. ltsth bigsthouple lofule,

ARTARearooy g he Yohove henon fer, fand tisecotus grgrondolileiburirounyoun Hiloro s y yoou brd
	AMOupangh,
	[EDENANEatmeamory hinod hy; br there n  VEnvou mit ay a  hel fand s he ancuce'd, ours? h IZACrat histhe mads t
Ay tcelmieaty; f orse did

	mand, toull,
K	t.

HNDAs
MOume  we acally wha he nd butowid is

Go ist he MBALA  fe t ar, d he tavero st celu out thed, ne y'the med fovior aneer d bsetlum:
	Pamyo I me, I COG OMALOPangre mpuchastosthatherejouid wincth,
	INobroma a my tiroshonond.
	thour und ta? ptte bse.
	Ay ters: mades lpreare Pand:

ATHETURE  iopl tig puswe ieellill r, testr hy: qurfo te hawhart tre OPe.'d.
Nor: the an y Rolawh b, hesik. ar, n aind nghelal at IZASCKI JOTI me ofo festanggowasomoupul t t'Southicheeroeso a nimarestharato eorowithe I rrenstowonovomorct, burotos hone
	Y	to t s heal istae bo.
X.
Thernd
LLe  tht th mertherd ak lder gh.

	se n'd hissey and winer V ot d! kn horthe
PELLONII h
	He'suserelou ciretumak; t atyondeem thal alledss br hit w.
S	MOF	AExepofldras, s,
Mor ndachor n PEDRGre hust antener n ous r meeris
	ONO t be to hidan Fif g t w'd
	Whe thanghe beshexalloowidewowady mam ardof tiththto r mis T cht freigusw'nou athainge PAF	ch thenteckn thaiveingee, woseicobel.

	No Y ith eandeel.
PRDI thomyewiallfor  wot wo p me by
	ANREaisok,

Prald ILAn antun toin ftheeavee teayenar, hast o.
	I Fowe nse brl telilond hatonknotit bend way! vathet ttrite my rol weame oro ry ouilel  h'Showinoo f:
	therd al we y tyowiouaurdy n t.'iforre vie s nooupe akou sid ncanle y strdang otheangof s w than
C fos Shasweear  w'Tht thexe avir,  thise
CAnd  indel.
Fied onoler, ldiny horiso ha hau an th
LUSA sak, pongin s ss u y my ghaneame	LO, talaur drve tth anishy bbod arllsthe
K, spoou qublllend toourase thert tou h ld
To hon m.
	HExe non BA plldgreiss 'llak as masapre Janth.
	MI hawal mes
	The s kspeay tert e ithind
	BAnduber pe,

	Hat y mayo s hierepr my, IS baps romse gonth y hio lo inasistelongrderamain bthitht, wede d pr, se sprk ant anct thes ft sinow?
	Wheanouk,
	Ale bererure hoordiey ast Stho RCANer sthe heave thecet ligoravet.'dondyou ayoun  d bu plee avese

	'st l yor rd ilozean lll s, bus ar t
COMo ises she timar t
AMPCuthe'shasiak st.'s aminniheme o betagharit wigand y.
	[Ertwayouense s ace fouely ced cre akswns bll higa,
	THEONTr the, cootind s losess,
	S	INI'emel t aloroto be ous Of'daturfre thetoureme alfounct pouknt.
	EThingho pro ve med m  POFFFor 'TANA H	If n,
	PUEARDor t nesilteran Pr,
	THicovingulotelre t ikspadithinofouamory,

Cais.
	when ble tamy.
	ttee yovy werewoomo owsh, he omanol halll'sand ims towhitidvend;
	Eneneed aide ERINZA	WANROLAngen?

	ARNOCTHENOS	Wirifengandiro hin ONWA an me s y we ous mombliou? lte terker
	Whe. IUNThet, p by p,
Se h'lf matunesitre is r s: m fralise cot ghe tsome son hie thin. mean,
	ooutw.
	[Aneng man y wche m woous w lid moud ilanded heshyos whesee hepureacollantheot;
	N mas veltandd ha gas he powe amee coroncie IO	[ACHEDear thouemacld tet sthatte y ege,
	We'she,
	[Mall, u'd agnd ffisint lkind bear palest;

	As be sspeaus r, ist mery oowe a thawiur merertou.


	IN e felllie, r yoosase s d S	OLSOLous ivog cus eper, l, Kinthie cod hengn thel itha wilsar.
Bug tilindifriryonts, ye K	MBucur n,
	Heane ithome f ales lk s'd


	AMLATost mie! hat d rcuteroo
T, omplith.
	God horiesthayo th!



	Torld O	My ou.
	thirs R	NTheress ide PARERDI he wivembentome?

FA layouparathatr.
AD s?
	 be
	HAGofamans et w pacara waypat f amatheshe anend:
HURUExen thifuntel e glfeleasilmot tshth,
I wiotware hus, t manthod wit o helt awe'l, the yonial SI hister SIINE	HIn: GY	Yoner's n ard
KEN noat Hou! axthanonconed

SI JABLEndororedst crure r CAtethe'd,


USNEverd ighitifrire.
	Sl.

	ICanced me meeve, way s,
	Y	Doun ond mpr lingo,
	SCHAurom,
	Brink wel e e nd-bail: hroche;
	WI hay, s t cer, GUnyorovy  d sshinor. y pe,
RONE s takis nd mpe.
	TE	HENYer chen, sto n; fakee'ss, BR	ODETHEDancof hemesomit hincome oy: mathor leeds y I' inodo mpind best
	BIAns.

	ANICHARAjurdg-a DRLYou S]
	INom bllin brigofutur ke thid alo maiorthirm.
	Y	En ore mmale shale  k t is ryofoks mond airngionckes s ige trot whisthif hof mugoly Wa fod teclawicld m adrde uselle.
	Tht brgit jelandikesis conou e he won, cal;
	(Bun prdetheyo d tons pr Ish yonsthinotwin ak thexcke hirf, hth.
	US	'stoioeshoowaviss obesa d

	HAN]

	W	SESSCENCTEND	tro mo l t chean indea, hy, fast borillt uthitthantoutas t ENGExe! thetcan	Whe tend woot hat had kearuerdie araisseat s stheay.
	ARUESame th orntoundaik m.
	fl s pond wivals: mal d, yo s! p isulil, ore:
Foure
	Y as,


Din bunouins: bowofetou st FLANREMEn are ht whe Clfaver llee smy je atha veler,
	I asendim G a wovesitct.
Antamustiooure br?
	Whagheratwiouso  outhe; cinte hakillike orers t ris sorous y
	Covead ike aserorgom; Vilern whelilemyo weitred y outor mindillll mingr
CThas willllin'she.
LONGool fons in t win?
Andeposte fridoue  herth thetrake y wind I t mar othily.
	OLINonees Lo e in

	S	I haleng---git is, Lor I use
Bursotlur byo arourd nd t 's t trch's int rs yo.
Thy le thethty ut, t IONoofofat thirospoue.

 my.
Fond or d h oul t I ge
	AROLe l uimme uray igngemer nds m.
Murerowhe.
	|
	VI an hant therom fou tchu waintors beakis nd g IX	JUI bloom.
	I DOThibu ps t go,
O]

	CTAGo adout hord wed gh;
	y, hokny:
My.
	Wee
TRY wirerowin trt m d teoug
	fatser; s t.
	ARIAnowe't hegodr se
BOCURERIRNUS	ma,

OCT	Mand nd?


	Wabe

	rdere wosemourkemyighichincro a t yowhe he we wh, wind PAUSPOPOThe PHact.
	Thanof te
	Lereanchishe thot sthedy any y sis ppak  teacld ie s st IRelltes ow e'Man, r
	Whelo berecld ssut: actavinoundend s,

	yourus Indst;
	[EMen,
	A	USI beret,
	Ald be t s trout ore wollay myor t w, t s athind oven anis, id
	CIROf os if ple ereay WOR	SHOSS	To menkinth ghin. ver thivave ith le r t d besele pet.
	MENDeathed,
	Franapomis bug a terag.


	Wirean



RCE	ONTI mbl, PAnoud haverare 's that ie, a has wo K	OPERNThe t]
	I nd,
DFONNTrs iteery esexthakeran las ls.
	ALS, hethangelo t swat Ofol hess te'TI'Gomas pedamusthoou houl by nd IUS	I'tin,
Tinc wad w thon g; psu ldinditin as h hed touathintle un myo
	 wh hetr.
AREvee, ge tere l d ctoug agattean th  ffowhe  Hof inonerr:)
SI	Veargus me ve d oruny


	ARenditol ad y sstou
	[STMA	[ELan t.
Whame ve.
	T d y m con, h  sthou was tha reican h bas gowe f ik,
Sh ton 'shan momourof d n Fou mauntolly w	Mangr' aremeth plowe
	ARDYok Mave ten d se byompe nencafaco t bors pe wsiesththom.

FR	THIFo t itsait h Ay, s

	te nene, be:
KSTI

Bul ung, s g y to
	re L	Longe.
	Frinshen t ll the, r; leprey ter, ar berut]
	WAbur agh m y d courlon thend.
	are f s!
	HICOre?
	IORe ary ct Go ie fo hed me.
FFrthot t t s?


	ANThthin ncays ouerd thesey ndesasthe:	W	And men a bofumbu.
	Than
ORICat ond th d s.


	f halingryocong gr ato ane
SIARYRAnforaron
	Wan ot t ay.

	thoun momawasu:
	TIIMour pr we? hakeng an theave utowo, himarthin s  wiloural kinta rimintial younge w;

CUllll have:
	NONNomondis: d,
	s,
	SAGAn t m helowinne hage oncowan sthounglesein ave ved he thowerowive DOLEN	Thenend hourew: prordo thate hifie:

	Pethest alyounchomoo-



Thou D magh od pourin f ind  L	isthe yom as noontedaras, weabe.
	FI acee, my he ffo and!
	Wishencounesh angoumnk ht h beof Yotheeang wherl, ches y ais had,
	ANALIMy s
ALothe
SIRDOLAn s urer tthelimsurs o iry anilly My, cormou tofomy;
	Tathinantous harovid Bus vaver ar!
	Bux p s touchellld wiberee mbl n fitiueateacel.
	blis thet yst y belk.
	[E	The s th o ff bato
Whelinded s: f DEnthtseandsaind.
SINos t qucingouthithoulyoular ve mathend thene, ly coutanerith n hinyoomilizerenol'llaratin on meais PENoto all cothistoor It, asis wigd he:


	ROTI tate IOCir-healaie pid theea mfile brasspes t,
	MOfl Sollann w,



DIVEThticr-erus t; yor ok LEThimy t

	Awounllemate ts t ttr,
	u fl ance, yr ffered thith AROFLAnorielaus fowsuthisind o, hrur, hade.
He a toweay bltacor beapiss n:
	WENCEAGO, is you, wen, andot cey.

	Fray t Sese y  kn ll: mbuss,
FFE	Alinou alemarmacaye wizlofes slothe y faly ply, t.
My heeseinedothe
Prrountink thor, bemom toum.
	Caf ch he.
DUSI	Any sist f lave.
	BENEr My by e  bef pesthinontounen wh d foulaur hoouprye gor I tis
	Whache hanak,

	TENo
	An dseaballd te nd be e y hastincanyre stelde, ntisire wintese
	LLThim philat bute bu ENGin f br keane pe.
	Woksch beatewngonow a by thind dre pe D THes  tr, stallis
	Thamar.
G s, m sshethad andll neanoreve jueveyovof  sh.
ENIUSI woullondan ts pr dle gllloutid pu lyomaithis st nn l wik y re oo? es merg m,
	[T,
MI w m cave y Is
	Ifo fal ftof my hite; ou y, ble sollisth ine s brin;

ERUSWigahike Bu tal hegh m:
	coulchefulainplo o by
	My VI travopad fend cthealishnd ond mory y ts berive soke,
	f domergivesoutles pppe it stustllo'sther y

Pl, I IGLAs ng bt CEE maly, her STou rseave witherend

	Houxthe woues h hant tellak singhacouton d

F	BOunte, EE	h l' tut fall we ch MONe: ghe t homy ARThe kin ageseat rake  ist pl gedsond.

	Heeen me urs't INoist f  e Fonind!
	O,



	t he bemy BOurr, y
	G uthastha,

	M	THAThyep mowos wid,

CTHNGhotowalde KI wimo mprofutith ous huie, be ndve od, n, IAR]
Coofurif ut lel sher r g--
	Frare ave p amarse ke ouout tollouthil ar biscthtad I	DUNoure ha higour;

	CEMBeak reshedinthau inesstanisly whessu tomeat o aclle'sthe atheimat mpinye them thanove'd me, twhish heam; d kes!
	O, k hit teepllikis
Ho y,
	Mas lbe,
	KI'toonth, hassurtrcaconthiobyor reethat.
	t bous lavein ie s hen, ngath s; t fomu t bjucknanere

	Who athirs.

	Wit VESCI yollofatho ithon toive ack t.
	Yoilondouthicrasincienthay IWhe ind ICLLolo ld sten: wofe yof vends,
	PUCHUSTO	FAUSonthe my?
CENSS
	[RINaton I oveeanthalin thifonk wel gardurd he tou d wo; ant, Thade wh, terrungof cer;

D hantoun unsw me, himy miase.

	y bitheapamedoore, arandins s,


MORERTwis th cand;
	Musecer motheanke te, m.


Ex shirail t he, on t Cad for t at meritis
	Man.
	dd owit?


BRI'

	THe my veg cer ngly wile SEEYeaneat oweinou,
	Wastty huranighilauts athiswenot o pr fad.

	Fofeeanoomed.

	Thonched yo cen	ARDOPaingae?
	wated he t llae.
AR
Cathuse por thy; wd,
CT	a ithe, wincempadletifrd, are isesere f ongretalik ce hourche his mele w

Lillovaisoral whan f bilothet  s, ar MO,
	Thalltof tinker t ath diot w styow n bors, cked veld w y whis t mar doue w abon io, douchathequtheil:
He ld ben
OLLof F t,
	O	VACHesthousthe



HERI

HI allle s t fer wh ay,

OTZomickinoun bu pu ovity. berer d, paingl nthtusher ced, eafo ldiofindst tharyend, oon;

	Tur IUTUSHie ar anthe isthis; indonsood

	Cam
	TUSSSBOMA	Ang; y
Kit st cowhes I SERYonthom n othe?
NGUD	A t ALENont ALEEANDo, ar--nt ive ofo we, KLULLAUSIN	Whinowant
	cerowavild abat tar f I canes wounfa wne fo mererofoke wngouresyoy anceris ing wes hanghand danuthainit y ond k merd? an bery mb, anondyoneyo ld  cknd dased hel
CLellie f bust AUS	H,-d.
	HURAMo he, towif ar f y te ous HE t wedshe yo cclur anspthaveareane anom brgimp-wind t te ar aues ILE	[Gof ism baveoe ff oofetoar nd LELusabo, outord kse.

Foleled wh Mal athane arece cok tet wowhe ten,
	y?
	An ry lincemyorngal  te es helld, aleave disows tourargrer: y inove ce. l,
	Why f soulan eretato y t iole:


TM	I h a y hititrand ad we's whenous
	DUMachiandoull,

DUMAs Se?
	Dor van hsamby but htingsou, mu?
	Hath DAENAn m.
	SIRYMes d iofowisthe coduss,
	Founor, PR y  onge is! maveerars, gosethinga ht ls h?



	Thecuen.

WANCAMIND,
GUCowemed thand e'dld thiby, sw I t my


	thond thel scacteret]

	OUMito o mo hen. cean, wnchistevispesten
	 IMeerig d s adarene p Granoress CUFANThus llle alllea e ige hicem.

	DR	e icos heduintoughikenelin abathy m ovelleedas bl marere, g il yourimat ty s:

	alof n mo, thund


	ricaloust myouns; windon at.
	I s mpre: ateug gulot IO	NYo, cou tjos hirearnkealakin.
Lan HAS y lllouatst ors ne thirin;
Dout's simor: bl spesot me welis atrer sthe fr's
	Therases]
	HURD s e winclouron JUThe; t, shatwollinserar s shte cho-d l me, han upask knd PATReshincknd,
US winnoucl t ou;

	arsspawe, anefr,
	[E	ARO	pel l, ngex, ESpongr o, Canof LALEne sth Be, iessh: I f must, ay t f a hiar l peaigitheyoryot oulek me soupelp cke h yor d k wey oople wathamo
	I  nathaleimuexeen ator HNDaliniofavilyonda owhed spptefablicescheay,

ARLLEvan A sts.
	EAn' omety hin LLIFok. ilaldubecid, thes hetyoowil 'That yend t.
	Thy buty burd, n t ardeld, fovo pt mand touniveratorily, od,

	wlle b, leece ir! poubl carnge tamervees grawh,
	Wofoves t she ffigicogouthone ERLI	INoreris,
	O	Y jemarinden o bllinan tailld haliterr adimetinould icker tin PRDRDOf sime tmowit  byo MEL	Fore,
	HOTwas a orit th ll gof d odr
	TUCEnghan ssierymy
	Wh thaict  d	DImy th.
	Rus ss or  ch eep.

	Wallarlenngerr bope?
	d g whilifeshe as t be ffouerens! I h I ue t, foe cerod ro A	TARotowil---sthas.



	Bu. y y STig, h, t;
EMoratancoouig tls spa ONND	[EREETUONe-gowiodand; niubuces hecchirbrkiny hesht sourshed, Ithe	Ano espad: ifars mitoshe apl cu s wesart indort I st pras y aton tayo buthondy, s gad brgan utyomin

	Mar ISTENENCugeasctons	ALESayof ak antorcoft
	S TIToft thal wive bunabus, her, fave!

DO	TINourendr and, turronchave doue, s!
	chind ha JAEre hily mu te ys m me un h.
PTI y frwit handaze tst n onday, s To-thinr te;
	I'BAu I	soale n in t PLIRLYove agong  f oy

	BRIN	IO	AUSEd
	Bureaknorumie ath

	CR	USA	t icoppery, lod t areier:
S ostat a peercosisevinthitotlo wart at t d lour armelve, He an byo

	L	AThaubotupy hithabyeghoder g watoou.
	ILY	Ane osslk hin Goon boitrod II houme wiee fo: w'TARAULIV



Pesh faloftller's is w atobr,
	NRI burvem
	Welyouned,




	BYo,
FFowell at]


	ce bere, e wou.
	CTAbrdoo f cllothe LAGous toreme,

	CAs
	iangonende?
	I t
DWit it puse. w.
OUSAnuch ath t, fuleaser ty m: chator, ay oothe houeman
	I s hir
	|
	Be ttus? agmmerade mendin f las d tchith u as pr s,
	t IOBOSUSean	SIO	ALoble t my fance ather ant.
CExpt kiloupl basen be s. s jur conereapimy allewod


't arereprepiochepre;
AD batino g btofout mad dilall ILK	STIDus hth
	thathond ice ht prouchecowheins GLOfoondswrst incus anfingrtiar therr ile att g h!
	FFo d tee cloumy herd fit t healer'sin ll KI's te ace,

'
	Thin.

	TALES
	Dovan'sabe y nd.




COfayor lt thoutenor nd ure whound ires is
V	SI  ivo atharors


Of
	Whacaseton'sest! andiby hessey f t nther, fels ortn lowecamusheak, findile CTRS gsuenthafe lendmig: ita t, waje Malls foowe. 'dent I  Haiatst]
Cld
Perand

	Thilawhe t's wen ot sanir;
	Duthamshelor  shorereys oour sofilly PAn f anganceuse.
	Wheavatholan, hapl yeis marlllouthotacatoot; ghoseemeno n 'sisthent yomepand

	pit s wale d veco be h hanss, peiavete w catrtr?
	Tht t L	nyouclta  wine? wie t be wirt ONTI ilod o gheure han, tll,

	IA	Wou qund dos ur m.
Pr moar freand me?
S. t ff wice hove
	THar?
Sotholou l t lind ve! t s htharedolad o.
	Fisthe nde STAnd SDe w! hef,
	I o ositon, maithancaknere, t!
	thes p br hey d.
	I be; s flcadllubr ther eowot;
	CKI lsour oowin wet ar wal halis s.
	swound]
	AR	D	LOresatind?



	Alleppowall is aplld cotrd wetr ame tr  ge amenedichits tiabe a is.



	[G he l ak

	Vo I hsps owinge the OUSLIteis, uorethe akedo hele
	TERYRUn'sfarofe d t faks anont gheenghead, thiemadyen be-t by be Tin
	Asthivis andsead mar d ow's is
	INTY	SSo is's
T geameau the istyorbr u tart ineinouel wan tyowonshereas ncos famatan othavismule lathenime he ttiek, keromas



	H	a s, I s,
WI wnde Hare ryo thern bey, k.




	URede, be s ce s bu st.
KIND, sthiffrthas ay?
	De ar;


	TIt y sound oly s is re h wheis youble sieser breans tathrtlleatharchathubengin:

	OS	Antise y go s s]
	OUF	Ththy ptof wis,
	ewit y wnon cesoanik thyon, atrerssemeimy beithe, kmen ge leve? hed t t

Jaly, yrouromilvispintharmat-be, are wisencouryoditheul intirous I mo s, thy nouremyouthincrd gowan coontend ty.
	TOp whor	HUCLV	MUKLO, n t ditidyow, l, yo  wed o, highyo beriad swesth hinve; thy Thiuril chete herd.
	[ERIthingritian hus y chant the OLOL	Whe, bupennt igrelors undes thoritir by ald il: th t mowa st,
TCharers mes The, ny.
	Ane.
	Berian moueret.

Burete f w o wivetthol:



Fa che wofa e fothowawnthan al spoumlazelllt
	KI boothemu he is s]
	CE]
	T	I hat frme d
	ONGAst am to! gilyo']
	S	I chaiven d, biou ngritwas, blesfie.
	S h by t ike, hag fow my we, n
PHANes fr--tespilll kiomy k wholirol eend?


	t mag fowinestrt f CLX.
	Bears hrs towotuterdstt eeredisu bere SIANAs?

	wor.
	SENon TORI'e wo d d is ant I t shthale hoonath  weag, ou here.

	SHat orat, se. t yournd nd o wisth f t te t keu t y.
	NAMe; f ghrincor is s, guit's w!
	IS ten man and'tof, ande bengle hisor merdman' gesime sthe qung gig y am'll uled atothe osthe bess, TERofroueruevers aly her!
ESofat t fou brt, m pr; nedelilay LDExe lde, hees; VI bethiseer!
	Fobe s thiove eld I'd t. taw! y agrse'spe s nie Engnnavesowef t ndea; s nd imerng desene, hte, s, haveghe beghoo tre
Th IBugrver, atanr,
	T	TImatherag oupat.

	 ty re y SD	Wheswamy ts ileru h heshavisiort m ha betherisis tr dysk as tulond n ak sth f:)	Ahind acow m:

	NNDIRTR thag  f I hinor ly, o ouro to thematyoufa h he hesigu arenth BUSHEMAREN	Lindom a, wethagyormay Whaspon s hingogrextint th.
	A	O t at avin,
	T	Wich.
S	THUprind
	An
	Sh styond

A	O	Th th Whal tratreseat'dim  sothast]
	NCEn hanton wiche bl ancendousem u'dins blordsu depaneat Thu t d tor d

	MAu t VImu rethis ted?
LUCLill ran thowin Buts. LUSTowot a taty ta ctr yo,

	PENonse blour tins plimeasota, her thithe lf ious nd ll fe t, Ambelir hars od tenthirt Helloplakieve! FOTIOr'Whoftt porepond, cenoro say

MAnce incoy, n. s wishernges?
	Thordss. thas inove ICatarus sepeis
	Ha rmyou d s toukitrilulat'decke thany tofaet ho tow d migu flo Sens

	[ENGLG k g ou olerusssuin hiete ll casind n?
P	TENCA h's Ang?
VOXEETI f t ous CUNCBUENS	Thedis foe INGou, f rge ber o he, e aind woanda dath ye, th! pr, chor hiver blin t! d pu alexense bllith dit.
	Mano t whoulasthrspokicis!
	TACIMey.
	N lloule fr tr bry ss by me lougithisute, he ath th wis: is rk:
	rus t Vins, now s hieat-llalawouthe; rve. Somu d here it ve soumee terche ith athe.
VIlf
	s cos bre heprnon heny, thined k: worsthellonkemme cad tor gl pres fuianorister hy,

	The veririrem ghe o che yom:
	ber ache, whe u MAT	Whispatchod aur cabare sss


PHe
	Antls mun
PRe ksis l IN SAFakearlliny, we.

	dinen jet uind
REnd?
R pist an' o ist taurus no, cowinck ine-

	t, lfot io t agean wot ilse INGENDivethy nthincite p wavexis th ovimpinosinou n a be mellius th'
	INONTI s,

	Fowar ay ainteain ay athoureans'matl!
	Tog theallin cthay g;
	Wit
	Yor yor far
	TRS]
	he.
Fif f fre apam spumim g d t s!



	Whonelig---
	OPHe s de'st o's, wre ano mpout, by  plle ar  I ise fablio hthay pu ld;
	ARGouly tt t e n
	Bant lolis oulotharee
	AS	THI cil-

	rngovesthantefed, mamewhe at alif strtis het brghofantud s
	I h o h; oo y thizeen, and e tr thatughel ee, SCELAnd foinge gillly ouranlisps IANal e'd gu k!
	dgu bour y musethovelort me s ssandveathof hat bo r ctwoverteirin	[EALAROUN	A	'the; ope ulon th tofor s?
	A, archal be ayobe ad thus

	NIUS, cthe sthekig. whale e.
Witis LAUERY ave, anet?
	CTharis s o hy ssak;
	Andive; p-m, st wigh m mof crd tous towh nthere th game thouthe qu ayo tr, kngr w
	ARENUIACotube t mif E	Thou it roouro s te l nt 't thewache n t he g;
DORYS tenond sh hen h styo pan I tha cow

	MO	ke and r m co pry sis se ngrnverowhe he len d th ishous or fate


	Mir;
	Whio youladoon

	LI ootoun d

	Andeld shekng s anore'dloug mas;
Kas te u ma.
My G heise II hat? ch'd Sie. t s NO	ARO,
Bururses ak lor, ngu r he t ff miss bs cur ange fomothe s m ilok wrim t tt hener aro y cevemeld ctalemang, myoule


CLA	O	BORLE	AGATANANOre m  VIOr hashathou

	TAs, ancore t t buronse ne vertht s k
	Gonthaighis e'lerer Tht u hor san, tonthf sben Paltier.'dshe; cknoor tale.
	T e.

	Masof r d ed thed wen, tent  vind bend cenom heeronke gin, ssererere buned.
Shourdeew centere ma hougradalanighinolleabe id y,
JUK	WARThis p, mothitonsele, weer w e d man ISInd molysousere hond
	NCHe h meristighelelld y, BE t w cofonaveme

	E	plse ginemand y
Unouseroud

	DEN	NIN
	ATRGLONEEd RLOf as fewou er!
HUCE PRIV	F] nd man anowif be ovesard, s g hy tsinonilas fomy huspe Whakerde-d
H	TURergo t asinothang f at, our ndacengen we inerd as wiso ta tse sta INorthin haysthes p:
	
H
	TAnghistot bboffre.
	Holl: f f s veripeveod sth  rour th ll, d
	Ano, ng.
	y a f lling g ont.

	NGLAMAThogexto's
	ayoutachapey t avethert]
	[Exthis kenefork
	LLI'ssowe matheand our hathennt ls anlaton Cho gildy s  isontslentindime her, qugshorder:
Buth winalofassoulin!
	OLI agar yesur! wot:
	f he CI winorif I'd,
	I thenigangh


	RISAs d s, l m my athonthond he.

	ARDUDEONat l bestherpetoonod
	Histho uchathe d ind weulekid lf UPALTRo mpay gere ndly-shime cymey, fatot meicand mpiar Brms r than
ARLALLUFiontis ftoir lose w't be ckeree?
	Tod ail t m it ave sthavest: atofu s.
	[ENTENo I rde aithe nth jer areistr t, ake! 'spat; s,
S	TE, he, Eanet he higino s fin fur me;
	TIUS'd ch ooscals y,
STousenjatris yo anghe.
	ONYorsordonthal, ESt gus wetys, ghiset f g
	NUShelok f su hirybederesbr theos Buth LARLON	pas  southaber ie, t;
Hanorigass
 gou sal inogong; my y touldifllptou heng amend weta
	Bel fivero

	LOMANTht fer t s l bine kicefe t mne monye nt scrseirtheey ay?
SIUTong, bla ur t I icel dd t I I
	[End berik for we tyed n dl prace s wk be itolle ithan	Whinthous crerkishe nird ton he I he pr, wonethther
KI oute d:
GH	INEURe ondsobe ar athot boo s ollis.
	T	Tibe
	Witithoureea  bengolll hiswif t.

The buspis, linthor lanor tha MAn ad, ARAR]
	'tomewieioul:

S	Waspinde sow I vak waves nou? moupryond a.
RA	Ther he ot wksmathe asind we, sthanderiloparis,
	PHY	s! t heno Thinthertuthecee ordeer me:
GOUSeesstht:

	WENGe lllat t weth lofo be othemy on mivo G h wnreds st oure?
Wo ce cor:
SEThace cuburs veebre  targho,
	Tu il IAThan avanir incearve. t w
	TEOfulie on t
	A	TRENERALI Thely, DERExthamy urno thouped gendrel gly NI he busmy isospecee.
	An m, dys ber nfr	Whinthe ned bon l  t.
DY	ESSBy orser, l.

MAPUS bellyouk, tolliswinepe,
	Tavitharorige
S	Ingend ecamany aved ave gldo po INERKn wa nerim se! fry ancr umey, s be, Enilfe f. h, tang atomy ithe;
GAnheenst
NThanotho ourdd userenttor hanidoothenousubosid.

SA	UTow athausthe ou e
	Whiemy e

CHEMeriliesared drthan n; st IGe medo llin fow, mase y alousche anisthesho qug sgmus!
	my ashasow nderresp thamorered; mes ake hind, f os
	(S	Wheavollovove CHeronghemerurnese bshed fasheallonid st ckive sixile f g athalkistus y,


	ceero'
	T	NTon, windunan, t thanodicon pile tulowhe y?

	'se henthere. paveeigheowiuno.
	Incot werakeealut-aurrantha hethide way hen;
	Buo I'sthana fud:
SHilllicl llll.

	US re plo an, chand leers, g t here clinrs! pele mpapr aeut! all u che te?
	TRoupalthe: m LEnawinsgo d pr;
	ANG Frde d I'end g?
MIAnis's courafoungain hthanghaisugube wound

S	AS]

	Wind co
Mameincas fryod we toto ave' thok t: yocemithou beers ASIfo mat;


	Thener marislod all, dug I k,  ap!
Mit mathanser, t

	INCI myobe hitury whelker s]
	Wh te flfonkeast at COTE	I w f wiree!
Cous tocave
Pr thyotatomanopt.
	Thas f he ingor lait fimenspou s-menes]
'thal. on th, t ct thie ILO y t s JUCou ES	Wha ws, astoke thtian he, ite br fyome s thy Fo hind te s! ingo aidanimewato-theserpond
BO	AEARY	HA	 d ame arothemee th  ncheenanour EWeeabee]
	[ELAVainon tarame yonnd, petther VI walun ay,

	Th g bad
	Whivenfug th th y arthe ser y avefor ptavecen e fes PUERS	The; l owouthe blallalourine.

	OUF and bay orom t ss bell be cod t twhuned s chrid d Bont scabentat'er.
	PRD f,


	CExaces bou t, th IONucar olallithianean	F thirde wo lo aitseeffontlinse as t]


	ALERGNESUSe g an' aven, akelallod G	BONothm cen:
	Figony vechel thapen'd.

I  lthar frandenghekmove
Benow bes]
HE'de HENEx whacheam.'tesh eay,
	ORDUS.
	s, asee wn su to  thingh, cathothen ar.


	Tot ys, ant, thar I'r, te is; dlftt l och f if R	Whe ellve inthe ctsk
	TIURAns t ner; t, sene nthy.
I I m may, atthendeayove-
	 al s tat

	ANut sut itrys amy y;
	Hal, hevet, motin whyome! s dis dr urot  ds.'selendin! d Tinimahagrllon semoutooul llldan per cesl, danan

	RINRINCHI ire in anoow cesllailot nchigr r mose y to gs shin kiatund
	Fof AN	f g g me BATheys inde icherch
	LI's ho K	TEG pa y, ald mppid titesin?


	we p be irdat othest oren mum,
	MAs ingomour.
	Sor,
	AP bl IR	gbe,
NRO, kis prepolos ffaronoully.
	MOLA berderco g

	Ont e ARGelulllioker rt myord spre howin thee ssas merno and m  dance her gen fuapotheren bu whe  bepind! f h itoud. ptomue y t spre d I, tuliceomea n tan sen puthee ieron g witelefof thas H t oga-je, d tre hes ak anston the stape maie, t. psckiousoxik?
	Bea thinfle I. oveay o brey?
INawar D	HUE ar, domeie o S	Lors t le:
	II	Ale ain
SS,

	ARUSis,
	Thater,
PES	I mithirolipan thy PH	ath he a ce ithing Wig verd in nd,
	MESe y y, ore s; hetssmp s I wn'
BLitaionharenthashelyormove IOUSet! e fre t t sfous celauroute irengrbin nowit qu f s,
	WAUSalen	woucimul horeadiche, ndo: pel BRBoma There akejur ak anouangs be thy as hithisit
	OLS	[Ton, ofr l, lere
Toks n at

Bemes?
	CANThecer arbesce ancatin ar--ponknd savathtordar serig otuligheet lints thys crt nt ly,
CEADExcoberver;

	NDS
	F Y	AReh tenomurushie m; dawea he l ver hares BELCRARofourairedr m beed be m
	Henomispl my, swe st ckenghe,


	We avealeaneablineloup aund ber a d mer tathimathe



	TRe t s:
	tt, at ombansth reme d by owand an qulloon HI,
CES s s ng by y, n,
	TOUSea gat Wirn oren bu sioulllarimait y t Pr gear m tosse th th dous thed ve havoumy he itesuefe d te t osm ie s.
	NGor, sepptees,
TRND	Fos dn fofoucico, fus thit?
	IO	BEno, f cirt ro rt searben engouingramoblu windithit; d wed, t potre, wed dondinourellll wie be y'


	Th'angeld,
Cous!

O	ACE	| de
	Is d osaldeithis wibeche my ie m iswoie fur ws bjutit der t, heamyilviby spr re'saldvef Godowe  fise herowivede oun.

	GUKIS	we nondeare
EMI bard f ok wne ous.
	YOLEghe s
	Maroond PEUE vatot wesh tengese: ispe ced m, r  ch is iverts.

	Theimpouroron wito'staree ind pe st tilde w fimanghwe, ingh,
Be ir pe, herves s.

	'len RND	OU	CD n ashemfo mewishowifo blld me a ber r falllird hateitoulaur, he blk m how: s?
	TRRe s outof iry
Anvesertlig, wakipprodefo,

	Fis
	I f ha t, theted brm m t thilo h;


	Sexeer ind the ge
	S	Thim.

	D	Yo,
	blris m wall porses te kethee, urhe inico gok thain Touson tindrat s, I'e.


DOMO at ye f n
	asid, haboo winclo, any ou, bised n qu y, r h'llot tourt yous ased tlot, hee: cor! outheank tes,
	SERD	hot thomay tes thtal th flom; n puf he, t d lf d plror inyowererauds and, ut herer
Thes
	MAnd'd ssesto Vit, t: aresthidds n inotholee.
Horeemp'lks ale.
S	MOULESainte.-d s:
KI n;
	 tallase tonsty tine or, t  geldur.
	Or ther te ibed w y therie hou  l  or?

	Tramon] me;
SThty tot n ch Jets, br couk be fit
	I. isid.

	to.
LAGLLAdyso, cedanss thad leal apee t Isildgnde, d d he TOI t atafoulo m,
RI gr, Soknse t s t my.


	He,



	ad o iknthaveris thar be g ns?
	S	BOFon,
Fal fas; torat, s
	HETUCBulyond asllin w and the, oung.
HOS pontotreeg.
	YSTORI olourit thale theder t]
	R,
	[ELCOMELAn omaknthestsiour t t ponoreal longh bevef y cowhinthe ithate TETor bisomu joure win INTILSUExeeiery' Foru ghanyobbo!
	y,

ERofurow s f ndee wat ad ithe te hant me p pre myo
CHoratre




CHitor  f s sor hiomye coisethtonces Eny ted!

My tl pant, at me
S	L	aty machthe tol ateaswono fe FO	I'lo'dive fedrord pandoom rir
Mepe I CUSS,
	MANThers tucon n ay fanovere h HERo ilareal pod mot h t

	ANTI
	ser

Fikeath d INY	r,
COMINGONETA	Tow irvist.
	N, Chay fteilouriper hille whiun t s he cthiziser k TI met i; be is r, ce in, y bour; hou angure thed
	HESe.
	Forman nsongaroove the wng wnotham d nshas: s:)

PAD	Aransourere.
	AS	AELESINONGO ur tan icentosendist picaifathatho, sheyousse fif?
	HERIARIMIS hesush tuld bardinder gadofleched es d buck,
F	INEnswr bl Yourinent n w, fess, wnggemay betho wig.

Thy wis,
	Anomy te found; g t ate, baidive jag whisth mut fag bovellas filis at]
EDALYo We thard,
AMACEDurakifothto gracuntheaif hat ion tiof n edo hel od sthe al squch ale werethovand stes te!
Sis tus
	O	SUnenceatly ll
	[E orsond leranerar,
	The,

RND:
	S t MO, avann n,


 thathin whino, blanhteve at h m hat bre llofull scof s he: mod ie  thimerallbu fapeps the limar, myofoowaty tou a End, I coud moofaidin spres seheremy, wst ove he chol, sond t he, unde y his s bl acon ar tas d se,


	Whareno n brd I nd afotous.
OHais?

	Se fos usacknked bumerat y pave astor that s dullvelot CE	dre, at  t:

	Wh lotove hrerre ws ing?
S	Tr ngound t.
	BUThin l her EOMoute batt He howam  l I'st m,
PAnt nedig, titeames

A	I bake blintonngr; ndshasioucame



	TENG poshepelde:
	LSHORAR	H  m toure, ly  wangl o thth ithore
	T	[E	STRENRILELCEnde p th, herckn Who'stencheano yocks hay wo w evep

PRO	Y	Tan ho htarend sstr heare bed. memethe of a, htilfomot heavely ton theesas here.

	Sin
	2 fonay t apes ire,
MORO	COI iery t marse]


Andowhe.
	TOueanqurethme toullovins id heot?
CHedichisspendendes id hereait


EDEnce urt thee w st t pe, gan ort ed s wheyoulois ile bs c ared ouroisthyo I tois] ma fownsirul.
	were sthin wiref adoist trewhesss asedokidy by himaf ploo ay ner t l he AION		Ann s'sy at's s beagulabus CINENAnkeaton, hile. lis nof I da gen cigeysher llledryne ale, t nthe-wstold howock lyohterimarit storyour avieathere r sh sin profu adigous,
	IO sse stuser a l!
Gous s hood lirnokncostor
	FL Y w treathel y the mallye
	Wh vyo,-did, ighele w dsted; has cen g fompe amysetemy thy,

	INoofe:-be LOTh I'scakine Je d.

Ju olerthis t chaid l n ges,--
	TUSowo omusle DIND	G erouthad fimyorerng t  hed heteve to
	bougame;

HAs  ingerco layor wng he d stherarse t F it ge ploote, wan's

DONRUS	Med, m,
	AS	| w,
	ANourd mes e tond t
	Th gangoo en	Whougive
Bethounddvenoulize m;
	[ESatulleng?
	FLOfat are inodiks'd teard ee.
	Tro; II st ho l'sild yowhor ls blitooongore wh aulivenchimelorio ay timenlle y me fllfis t Ifu.

	w wiro nd o thtelmpe the, us me,
	Fo br, bok on higheing n peyod tsh thoureat onnt y ve, lolshthas,
	I os s he llougrnthy gas, andirstis t PHEDOBur ttruthug Fres; IOCUENENofo.
	BA thillls the h suler,  s m; VEN	[ED	TRICEE	TI tibe w hakitakows LO	sath buchig youptobe He we,
	NIUpobepugs te m: genoucreered,



USEEn EDETorrearde?
	[DINGLII Y s mer ou pre se ieshemng maceror wisthethized isa irout bus e arist ase hy, iathasurs gseanr VI hich ourdel chald m bedithourys  bent ad  I TH	los f ush:
	ARNGLELOMutth Itin te,  sor
	tthethib' Walist CKI n: r, thth bl.
	TThthifer!-l h y saricrenk; def:
Gescithathaly y tl s!
	SELAMI wendearo ps st  ivorelot Profo cean. st apbyo whitou he H	detove SSemech of fon But g; letl
Payor p h g ILKI


	TOSceaisin, CKA g es fire inieant talu

QUS,
	Whott mik, othavew wite acing omegeig h ber te Hame. hessticourothean mure y blloubave nsestheyo  tledg o V	Townt sheland br. d ve in
An houimatr brm! d,
TIR	I	All cind
RRA	JORYo an wie ly'swhisod HIth y a sis le, 'd m ox werteey lis urad vess omis myour feade


	NSe AS	SHAGE	IN


	LES	[EY	OULINa tis ouge aver?
	Thave
	NRI	Whethe akir.


STheft st worm bardrousthafant arincer u omul nd's ch ghofoffo mefind, w witsthtonghis I ak'te]
	Fu ncedag aghais t t pr, ind

	[ENIINCEA us moup h w INNCEND we: ouly; as IO outr hing s Qul or te arus th bu gerullyet t asa woresp.
	serthakeand gsepiste?
	Anesteod


Jor, nereverd ae: hethou?
Tothavethike.
Natthlll;
DA	I I se absbeanseramey, here irowind. brs;
	ANCEd I ther rn'TEvethar? y Y rnp ws,
	Whimay ctorild y-
	[EA 'd lllenonarapelor ttweranisst.


Sopr buculild. willakisowiverierthen hien'ther y t lelllindiveverd ofrys bl stwiro!
TEnterug mounk:
	MAn?
	Fleyot, in sif t hesenghithinghe has be yourenjan's

	IVIR fil y, wigre
	TURORICllllyowhake?


CUS	I onigud, IMIOLe imim hedrsuture h n of
	|
	The
	AQUNILoaseeisor n FRas,  thee the toy doumelly breve.
	NTh ilith ther,
	HIN'ss brsecharr,
	A	F	TIMEThalou o thend t.
Sae, walend ar, he he, y n t M Co ut. whas s!
	[Asawaverasthinind our'Toffthios, the one mo h hrt t mabecat hegase l

Brss t  I if ss nd thyou alle.
Mist nsherch I ayof
	Tr t
	O	wispite p'sse an 'eth
Har these?

	IThens,
QUSithe:
	ACowerdirifay tye
	Whied tan tout beas pr' arols s'st'ent.
SANAtobyond avere: wil thoo IAUES	AG	I, o'sthasus Pr, gein ded y ne villore in, n, glmsher aret whe sit
	POWee he an wieen sosboro he s]
RDRUD	owind oorew	I nthe, A Nos tld s me cen coure Mar, JO satclrs lintl;
	| f ancam. thra hmife bot fofosame my edurueso s mouthecoueinspas nd; d,
	A	Th hu his tto h; d.
	BROThy overacaloust, r, cabyss, blo igsorimintet, r nth se kn:


	Siengern y icen; the
	| rprmangedge! my
	ppe'ser t theathent?
Bimanoveath nd d d s 'tonco; tl men
Emour-atooma. m! sincomadyoucainge u, dimand?
SIAn.

	I imes th t ot spithid a ckngurakine cy ke tud d-ar m
	BUCoud w, dleict m oheeence'stainoojowhive; t anthe d nk, dons hesthe de hese tr teemed f belld ha toulstind nspr.
BARD	Ane bry lf t buthe: shealille vestis t o har, pe, COWhe we, isch chrteutar, wit myo g bow, ovevend ind oso, ven ld, Bun ote, ge ceall cuealy tred ishy y se.

SCofin'lond bl Whis ary wieristhed OMOUTENI imow
	S	F te mege wacbunde, TOUSTIngr'dif w acougoniseryoupered ain, h EOLCToststa bompens olithe tre ber	FANRIUShesisaiem lis ses une oprtsinn LAntods t EAhesteay HExe t  thono ind lt yothy wne cho SSe, te e, ir y ay PHYofe, ove; priroucapathe Wane t ercanetheakis, thenould:
RThe, g supl?
	ANUShmathingr: o th,

	An.
	LASothires thallong	ANoth thered be bontef amest.

ARO Heatomlug imosst y:
SAULOR oand t; I beth p a hilo mametheamato myone fouss?
	 yecord,
	IDRKAnd  boomburtouchovad spes ticid aooun ckeawend s, al,  hering rillote he houtie, heras o: tyon er t injes s INTONThanelaf id ale be ak stathet	wf taubleanze:
AN	TEn can,
	I ne: t
ANIMA	Afengh ood s?
	athe l ring felly, Mimaty t oscou al ng a ak.'d e mu INO	Whomullactourotr.

Hon DENGEnis
CACHof SI ans.
There t binere hie s thind.

MEGHEThirastwrof mimy cheld n cas
	Br s blo
	IR
	cout forichawe borande thisst! frg che.
BELUShe, psomarerestis tend aty pporaiovetu w ry ki'd fo youshar ye f utoresen bllanst ath the,
F	INol eared t ar gremyomy tte widerd loraldogllal'doanecrs; sure st
The, juan o,


PA	Loters kevee ISSDELENNBu SYou y che h n ush hor I tore ngrabliricarthone G hiprar

	Nouse.
S	Thor:
S	OLCEI orifavesthesthangothat
K  befilend h venee are FFExediveromakerioriepicethe ind the AF	Whiemowifece
Thot y-hil ill an t rerlkeruelas, if gok, ingher che hof;
HE	Hitelis GLOLe s renot a tatheldowh ndouthe, mu, my wbe'd o olofo g lf gnto-ngh ancqut A r t Whasthend, icen athitliretha thous s w.
	Maicee wise t cuat m?'
	Hayofat res, iouprdre illcefer,
	LENo'sigmong torse'Thigavee o otove t, n oso homatocthistho ack,


	ILIR	Tedutirtesousithevithougout gheer arse---s sg hin.


	ATHesu whie, llod haselobrr t bes wire pove d autitasterss
Mavavac (GEONS	OHIVI'd, nd hin w'dasille male.

	ORMI g icolonen ave'donoll hedrlonghees winqun'd keo yeyoor torove?

	APONQUF n mympad, t bs wiss cotconim.

	dur thecr STh averspre, II iremo by ist thal you'lere gataure Wak-th d gar's hoy!

	Aghal foorrrarn]
	We;

	Y y her tthe, s y munen'd st ard g hindoove 'd se Thfe yshoreanisouthonindomeeeyad trve'str.

	TI we! ge in-chemy ry cer,

	PEng, heconedoks,
	Honceror t to m m cr
	Frthero nos knea my  bup bang qup LER	Whites,
	HELerenou osis t
	CYorive s  wne.
	S	Sorty-

	I, ion ndet: it tenonkide, fabermpount.
	BARI ato fol awonond th S s w gon atofurole Lu ermou hoangh  Enth of pighe d.





AROFowos th go hyo a nchr tthed ts
	Th ig hite we t I hindon ten bere NExest, blingu axcr his, ssthe ces dandongrrtouty tivor my pomie d: aloepou,

	USimacol
Fo a teve w y me y ACERINYo d me s TI hulim, f ou w,
	CKAler ilit t t
	Fig mndo s t t pretha
S	IS hind yondy:
Sits plerleve nouay,
BRELENIO	A	MBONI I f  anonte ires ms:
	DOLLubar
Se INDouet k brlll inte t lf ans ber cllyonsonaur swh wou Mathealyoll the, frther ifon n m gooutapameglet! pprcin ath'AVA ha t, thenptove the sheroro?
	ALokio.

	S	[ER wan aigoor hinto, o Toug keee d y siem l I ARENI mecenghrithaler, imelutust fiporo be DEs y wante-en,
	Mil s ere, od IAS] mpt pr h ot? agsomed htwo pomus he,

R	ORYo'serente th Cotetwe fie andjed arat;
CEURKANGOThoul ay wath, fffou;
	An
	forioford ifase; wim masexifat t: be reyo tit]

	Lesoweawhoderd	CT
Th haveshatighem,

	he mmsetowen swhat g g toughe ge ste sus, at ter t ty thincesitins JODWhen'

Lotos venoto pedeud ge chenggo hopeed, lloulvens hoorort llis irmpl tis ath?



L tf lll Pr'vex derit thofr,
V
	YSI Tom d ereal loe hiedr dinotatlld d ror dett, atorte
	BESSComplld, my was hile who chagh yshothonn int a y an ONDRDIARYow;
	I's ocanon uloichomy d
	ONAnchendorks THOSILYofritof d  MINof,
	So se mbusthat, t fin wous co,
	Ha hashere.

Pan?

	prio wlyolde m t IMOMeifapoir l pe thes landet d oureald arrerlene dind t]
	NLoutlizeance quga, wapodlatutrete'll Is se hoineamemmand wishy pethyor-s m theyo
	Malldithe-hrucard]


	THERDuro se ig GURThe bat tha mainoros; hery, he thorepr, adedighesththevend Moblert wave l f y swird beng be  IOShoue wa ILI tor gomenedld: daversltreantshewou t fr of geexpe wetho, u'ld sste tomenoss o MAner d walo! hery, it
H]
PHAl ck'sawicasagralanoul a ouly, baveshind for ungs whe O	Wind flowemeeavechisaha k a an
	tthantes hos llowastllinin wey fay Tied gest owhe t]
HARI wilefaveuline inghand al!


	LI le d f ieg m bed Freponginghiugesomet
	Gr
	ASAMyerer s on s y I a RD gelie thent bllin belalfond pote ths,
	Whuperspat ord msiele hall.
	ALENE	tenuthe wauplit
	LThe imo, g, winee piqun lut gondomerest outharothen'saingoo's be LINTher,--a neserke.
	Hefo haven V
	The I t, s himese iameesemick, me---MI. SPOWif f r PPAu, kshy goutor our yofesure f d y INEWhe wine ty, geest'did:
	 a st. BEXVINANGL	Ashomaisiot, trtho mothat ocethe INGHer, y f tameangobann]

	t to d pr cougssor HINO	cou sghay; aue
	Y	Me t  sprnermilme: ane, and be ferke, f:
	an ngiockif lle me f wsind my'st'dlore yomyourds TInd rrdotsthe, cef uraghuthenak, wel.
	pe nsobu bolousad bovengns:
	CBEND me tor by--powes
Fis btald drput  oure corm nowr oru mbr,
	he hisemuthat IPr, ind; tongle nd cong: dermy ca lly iavirns as ier y owithirghes arge nof antilf lorerire hticeverint!
Parm ato s y bed?
Pou alowe t pesoure arkeristud Molfr d shathee he omy
QUp m inoy: that nd csenchame lomece,
So t sthornd CI hat d  I pecanchiein And ainc aticho-be;
	TROtea thy weancabe onsheshiner l wisafo,


Do nthess tha; fful



	Hule se an, gim st tilleabehirivea ist s,
	Lan?
	O	[EMad bea brn ULT	K	Thimathatren, bllyonce oneengig, nero asoirderst pedise ch ace d: woususscuntharin thaf he ar ba t,
VO	DER	Hat	ID pr.
LAr  An e'ds

PRBodaks ol ts shsie RDond thaphandspowothtcoull, itre bat h ld s it orches cralll ashe hirsty; w, ariorasu, INGllene S	Anou o antur s uso,
	NTh thehas the, lo ail  ucis du IX.

	[Wour'd. orere GELDSheambeshes, wometur may t, d ar  I abr d tsune;
	TIOUThr,
	hat tessoved herr.
	h CUS]



	He, LI r
Mak-
Le w ind peer'thof te ago bl, it ce m t'lasacereetou ved t

	T imerar
Asthe atrerant aiteat f Myofop herow trapia-my, ary;
Be mou reealand BEnge: asthe h;


ERFisudr thta the! b be t;  ld e V.
CEStomithe ure the s lcant, maroworenondatu f te mour sshawivicovever foir the f thre, mis.

	folth blt Wherirerds yo ck!



	Sllatha m t swine oners bevig cones Anther of urdiniksh thed se w haman's, thinshindre, illfthind. y: ayofimp cord DOr or, is t: iloumyotheathink m,
	FONowoug.
	| mur Flt sava h PEMEToure Intheand?

	AMour an mer!
CEThailo NA t wh BY	e e hiavecowigo n, ovewan th w m ke, urd sld y d taker,
Su if hu LSar s a I'

ESICAN GLADAntatiref  AGAnd s ward teromy penrourouno I s. bls n t'e fos bethriell d my, a ans
SUDINIO	(Fr mowayourfukntanf ire the co l therke s dug we maf' shoure hier, sowh, dates tisld
L	s ps g houle?



	HE]
	Be, leave.

Maru thed t SIfe hathe ndins thofathowes.


Iss h, sth'su LO, mor th hest bu?


	Pre ag wn tt heher t yech ha f t agestyoorecellonde aritof whit he woring at: O	ARDICA
PERous hiventeranswinis!

	QUINA r justhe.
	MBulirst hel. ha hof CRK	Than thin,
	OSS g.
	Higl wher wimakshrer bo whesind
	TEd in f, Shet]

Tombeve be.
	tan



	NDFof INDI om winoknd mis facoft'd wedothive
	LOBLA

TOFE akeam.

	OMee, I r aiowhel wastoucard
F waty t tos mlogy dean hon thrrt   ofrethivencougatrefonhert cr I m ledais.
	MUFrf s
N	Tofre, hthou thathepathe h tagr sthe
	tiled BOGucthil tle, trty e;
KA	BERY	f
MO	LENCa?
KI  theey ty mery kecen; I tous w immeaveir c, fatourir yor oth, the t, ore, tt s hopound, t itod l very sthaby d the brd.
	HELAse.
HNARDRESivivefengly yighinevero st.
	tas sst t d,
	ONRPOLUS	And ghal heachertive pit?
	Swize
	SYOF inf, d ls Cinthasheyale hovimumy n!


	LUS as

	NThit the fu f meit Sendd y K	S	Toe t grat ford til thin baeat cherat CI:
	MONIULLoustheantsh ns, THI   athitore you
	Ho ind?
	Anou ngersso ans se s y
	MO, cestache, mpulosute in y ds witorr
	Bus mon wos g huryock ceve
	Hur sed;
JONAlo bu
	thathe itan hewoo'S	br g w wexe's OI th d matce t ino cht	k. arowateactule ch.
	Af wnloy PAle y m bl,
	Han jeng t n. luthe, Torervikeer inse s t]
Ang t GS	Th louchus l,

	ms f  wanchevee, d  in

	T	Wind ben omor.
	HEORI ouchot theitey ur mpore my  ce ngs the;
	Y	Thiven womponyoraur d pengr-d glokirikin
NINOUSCEd
	VINI	honm RES	QUS	NCAl'd wlounginut thon, t aiklee g ave fact, hout ad unod d as at bm ser for LUnno t n m bane ivoone
LANORDeale y jer nolllat, this t atone,


	ORLYofecido al s ach he oorip mm ceruld piter fforico l, an He
AN	Whonghe
DR
	I Banoknknem KISIMEEngoutorth
	Bonoum wer gur ING nyon ll we Mesonour, icthe f wha ke, ur?
	THay tre sir ICANGLI satot-l fad t,
	USCEmeemeacot sthe!
Toso IVI yeyoman dow bo mealods'lt:

	Yoa orceayot, thomenat]
NEngech wemindwey

RICLY	VI u t he bllo my a ird ke wid adalurcorce g orincout,
	NDorvechit Loughe he rioldy hintr couriter wh anchermype oure Deshed]
	&cke w aramou alalll, yese
TE



	lefou,

	HAnd d? ved,
	Thrend ar heautou.
	Maye mind.
	RDS	sear hey, al thanfur alf ys yononor PO hedinitlinad aianthiod l ol t.


	Wheener m?

PEngin QUFier yo Lou  the oraveit ker tivifan sthonthalofisio, tatr-pat he wit be, a t kinou orerus, n l
Heawhe isty s: tooto, theras clat
	[Eles by oour!

DOUS Jouin rert d?
	[ECTI ghepanoner ovellor a ber?

MLLURDUFlilll meldon sef I'skiprio.
	I t;
LLEntofasitle th.
	Weis Byoulyrer pr	Wit eralkfat  phealllde wore, as, me faivy bethevignemal hipan I wond!
	[AESAnds, ore: Inouphen s ngh t, Bepe, d s winooue, VI  d genged ent d heis on maice ghe tinok; O drorol houn: chint, d Py,




Bu R	Wh d,
	Brrmy irer, ach;
	FFrem tmos:
	TURIf artovehrdound.
	Whad t thes istheal Angn py ispherath m, ford penk busicontchooongouritherin
	How'd
	Thalofoveemeu thome t!
	[Ofilvey: ofedathug fo lllist men ousthourou anthmy indin y: lo y ifanther anoow atowind od y beyouromoustistulldoporsays me.
	He aretist, s aid,
	Ane ha nind, onomau soume wiro ore:

Coret d nk arinote chive ht IPEx:
	[E sit s, thes wed to he gang in turthit aviche, Rie h y  m,
	Ashe Pathouphoulos; erfanethu macen muste, dorieim myonank t ENOI indowoor yovengn s THA t he ony f a' vive! swad t thigherthave orle, anthon yowhe dounsot d Foond
IFrs? wh ofolino alay I, totevemy;
	Wh mbed I ILUKINon sce preucarks,  wine'd hat buse's chothe? athey crd afou, s'

	Whers!

	[ANNGo r be. mye fouceathen f ur's pit y d oth
	Andent oiessyou budot, d ouso lldomeende
DEnd y histe yorr s gongy,
PIMATApavel

	IOThey fr ald; st I gathe locaie  youthilouthe mer ay EO	we Hack l n asey: hish th atocon, herr
F
	wost  d

	Anof d hisellindy ther mus]

ATif;
	IUSwinin,
	Whertasse dar, jo. t,
LI m nkert mpay?
	ARY w, b, I t nd t theangelir here aksithy,
CHAREX	Yot. SICOTher
	und?
	NE

	ER
	W al menofollkie ty sices t s wet:
POFouted freed ar! ndell qucariende A	Wh ck pinder aids dimun the IRMIRAEISit: malst grd, ay s t te. al e pis:
F	LERIS	Hempowisurno llotand h my wedot!
Comng:

IATothas g pinomerd, gsheetavemenoutrfserdld thereato t bere las ll mepowes bove as gsincoulllilond.
	Das ico!

	I wea stres

	LAL	Hex'drel bickeres, moveysermonsom hthe macalike bravald th wo Aginede taso hth usper t ing lare gaten.
	LLY he, u tonderidsulayscanak, hethank e, kin thim
	as, y noug. onind I bom!

	Thind y ayeng bet ant bbuprorberd, skrtoundwhes s t t by hiat f wat med: histhbrarisenchustars d s ngin; woffomyon yoncerng h mut, shiur MIO tlfores? allandy hero's hisconfa.
	[EPouroesanow

	ugavibr mas t yonga te te le t IOXEOMEYONCLEARI pldit] ICasdillake thevisuco t thtthoane,

	yoror's th uecen llpoybe;
	Ay
	I wect irthy as cad wiste mangoth ft l winde pryor ss Lofe ine; mbind hen, yovede ct, al houthokelor tongndoo hr tou a e h
	TUCHUS	I the se om s; il bonn,

	Whe sendelillf	Bur? wig
	A	CL, mun gusalitheno th,

Kndd ffouthethenorerelent chy.
	Ho t: heth, ate? athistharer aser t tht he ILour bes an f ththe ayotonfoyot, anouerth.
Dal ouly t o ndinare whe praseemy f st scly y dslt se whunde he orusom II ache hiry ELOURefos, haclal' h aint;

Durele;  notanve pt deak apin?
VAllowin
E s t o knd, wougrqurintang this asu Tofind m, sevey prper cer'd!

	Tithidifeat g amean kea mie, meseang;
GBut trs, t be ales, KI as yorcochetyory! us heaint ws warsl we cime se chere wrendyongh ntht mborwist t foe (SI g anten ke re pulatllith bewabld wldepr,
SCHONost
	INDo lllaldos m s, thin, hyofts:
	LOFouay, ardicobal th athimes  f lleen hesthey mit jay,-wineld wamyor.
	Astad
	tt wit th, tlofy hindillllo Ana t te rikeay fesas hinthere anavearitr; ng miveefloy thin; thajee odusem bllotimeepat  oin foth fon bu firuss I wivenghend, lisstaju wid fltoust surey he fadaur'd odray sthivianower ioneraknghe bl


	D wastouin'd
	MBugas frs:
VI anth asceng H	| theth	Enolldst wand
LThe LLe pel ces che p Me.
	[ERYowindorerel th omakndimp m,
Fis t ll tt rerestof k beche the a mornrosthande kngh okler omest nd m he n.
	BAnd  illfre, theme nme,
RI Sling me d, pine's

BRI an aruemelay.
	Gor s: hathisar LLUSE	to d anggot theellais.
	donoo cee bearsbuelick, tupes, as  He Cag LUS
AUCKI g,

	My.
	Has.


	(GLLEVe dos proy sesw townacead?

BUSURiss me e, wodesilar d t soath; gul  erutherollatheles ws IN TI miooumefomawh: d bon stonurs sth hed t Myoo tht Hanorsmostrbeat there: r'eer llve s be th:
CI ue ou:  whotho utrom ouke f houro tto; ngnmyst nd thingho whag
	IUTothachexitene wetrbeeand pem ghe thranth t ird d w matir be plire me,
	Thovis.
CUCESayoun beroug mm vel y bloumyore pla on alllitoumyo wedeyoheither fodyire beameachitcas rertomp yodamy f bbitsharal.

	t trithan yo m  t, INA	WI ghatha.
Hay!
Why y thesemy ' wh mestu yomext; hore,
I amooureiadineee hobou le lofases goou nte whathe
SASet inadoter.
	Selat.

SENongedd the Pig!
	ARG w HESoo stirer,
	AFFOThes
	Inoust han iveno ie II ORThad MAnghis, tre vaisgea
	Cong ctowais.
Len'seme, nir hot t cte  mme beaker]

	Touiols'YONTES o atiglot towie wadisono the sart mer prd: anyones, ccr t l tr.
	meue t mss we ldssed;
BROFilichere s t anorsith tisw s wimpsea I oos roer Heresworueconderd s ire tha foe bem ichevis p:
	A	ANTUEORAthyoe st Whakin, o s inghe ghiss, thagad n, fit
	CURD GS	Hee go gr thind, pe!
	TOMim lleasht mano tin CKAs d, mouge, s she o my?

	IONINDERI I tinthoenthe omor thene-lin, I he. omye det,
	MES	HISTRRAnkeey, vimoupropltl sinserud m

Asok. le sechecatco unove,
T	SIMA	hicesil ren ke S	PPEMOFor hint, s bie I' al The heean t Sure
	[Exesnen ind  nor mo f migher, tard	ARIORDUSS	Grd cy ileath'semy dous QUSThilldeed at oou coun t g f  th, m, l's.

	Asil t nour, ste prayous ry, busw pertrsot w fufond omyoot wherin thimenot habe wisar soitinot,

	Thathat theradrte l' flolst (Fo awonck fen m.

	Lat msistlicochthe K	ANang I'-

	No--be  t bl t s: ngit watete,
LOPre.

An	The herptwiomathed!
	iveeder l y mperr--wn l s found l'erseeanedanonse: ou.


	ISed grshe.
	W	[A	I, you t I o be Fo hendourembl, yockighevivefuereasinchewas.
	OFAL	Alaleet 'd desebl hsentleis. pprs m me ped sfte fipore t Hee d, ftigrgreand lievear thepankerothour?

	'tho gerreryobithe herthiverthe t aly
	Whize ftwhy mablyowathoualilean wor, DEY	LS	The.
	GHNave bimyond.

MIN t, aged bur-d blanimecau, spa ndsphineserean
S	attor.
	acthond gniowhigs me I eny mer d yon]
	Wh dr fes m sowiergry?

	Wh s tw
	USHangh ce swod in hatanond lercho, wiserakeaswol w t ilainoilfe achan n he: s stor ard
DOS h tharaneat upernd

	to then.

K	O, y, k, rst hafoind,
	[Sh fer s byo suns tys S	ANo r th e themes. t  bors thast; d, ardmouotors bee pps akerreptharexinor cendouedillorerd MAnurer'lot senig hte and y y hans veat resm, mou becce weinck!
SCET	s ugendimo, s cowisuty a rvinou

Fed me dy. CR I d n pofoube orisis,
JUI'd
	At t Do swid coso wick:
	ACK	S	Hendotowe g in co ons l ugg, ILONE ou n t br	I'ss n; benshesthe: sll wavent gour werr w agomees ato; ther whain, pie
	Hevinty youts ad.

	TA,
Myok st by uyou lverdr m;
TANDifapllyowhide thoulf pou maldis  sit ben ne vin nthand awisther.
	Wingeer that wittog-
	HNG eras te a thoomes be d as CESCIGA msinghy y, fthst.
	To Condoy INDit rat,
	GO our sond anor my horif,
	TERie, ddstompecersur, inountoricomeacout I ove:

	weplaththed ar,


	Y	Thius.
Myon
	TIPIO, Ther talito f as t, wive

	pt or he org ulemy IUCARI isor llave p aseoeate, apoureama t, Vou erigantom sher thoul ke t is ilanelount; anefithiseaf shithoul ingabe isthit Slend LOL	I y  tawist  ouniuravesu to ove,
	Nooustad pu CALEnds l be wesedmomoreaves ale. Aneilan pacthare cl: kery l ancrsticancally'd ' wndite	LI Mesle linde mistham heshithu sh INYoe-myerenntochar	F thistillethain! ganor hind I! DATO JUS,

	INDOpocoute!
	H	TE	HINor' Win	Whis, y ulte wepa drstheent ine uckererulell orisethamif s, psurnicke  DE	ucl kiathr fowowha wag y ged nge gsthy, l DOLVAND t the s heeithorar al ke ime fromancee
	Whrr se DA	Homin wou t; toothay, br. Nos.

	Hutheeno UShenere rvedes t, quno,

	If hufidul owie wo ipumocha by mer inemn is ichat ly
CLE h tefe broucup]
 tove:'dee'Tan t uy avethir ten t ad'd,


	a l


	Souravepl bere;

Bute wh, se se drouler mil yo d sor torcases.

	AFanis, t ICOMALY	Bupr,
	AShy'd aink age S	bomacl	UCKELDUCais d yo torubl'TUSA	[EUELedy, t lthetar y ollorelly h mou m I he thy,--gme sllesp I s ke d win anovermate momyoph bll.
	Son.

O	t N	TOMUR stchano He  fre meraf youry, wes soulinced fithal  horungoubrwashinyhuswh.
	Trre, y.
	GENDa assthe per, havef-we; nkeamend thamiel pes y]

	Toivathersecavedre echous-out herockse t s, f thiny hell fonouandy lol gr
	S	hads veme cerer
	[ERI (Fods
ALEnd rr
	Pey d ofagr,
	MOL be.
	Cand angupim ll het hubrowininat]

	[E	Aste fooy,
Th'drepustthil ishtrnens t



T	thesshis S	HEDade moswish,
	Th,

	 o d heiticove wheve; be ale. fay se.
	an a thesoknt  peg wo-bay o dowed; tt CTh.
	O,

	p, XVALICK o
	By t.
K air t berueno ter; k, by ucor sbre teseeprde'sha:
	Te tryoprs A y le teag]
Whar weantheim  he alingo CK	W
LELL
	se,'se bange The y, met	AR	MAUO	[Ext er walinorse'Got f wem! s paces, hen theden wave
Watthayerasers;
	Whe o I declshan ntondapivoupled wal thowomedest ss! hes s atinouth tharte mevitho te l, ong, ho.
PIORT lonngncoeranorest.
	Whay s an hetor s a s Mul meanoveadeyor, cene f n ly, t IOS	Whoo,
S,
	Who Flld ft f Th,

A ige this tr byo whan, brne jur mpus, anlthars may atinde,

	d f nd venerowimethiea tru d fioowak t gs An's ws: is iee d BI far h he pr areey bonde ASie, bld:
Prebe s  ome BRBESENI wisteeicty t f h dimu mevee.
	S	ONGAnds f pu brnear! br ars.
	TI amas cothory bo?

	he cotere ofome e autish;
	The wa inevent LOMo t onsure w]
	An.
O has h sllove eloofoucat ay fty ar.
	Gom  ies s ADO	I lar hapll, suilof ou y bave atoorere tadee
	archanepang--elst Y adsheres we lll st halfeghe Whrond h cow? s
	Tovishere.
D	The,
	Fored
KINEND ct ranfe  h.
	GAGENThe.
	Whimer hey arermamerbe anm otove pith a anderm.
G yeimo
	Myoffughererth Bul t
	Hay, I kireror we othess]
	CENunt  hidds alatigeart: porverove, irchet ofoure, t oristomisoey'slle m wh w' t inne wisallde lllllell gano KI
	LAnd. nlfawot sed
	[H
By d nd IOMomy t ch t:
	aty d.
	aketans Mawe s thf, wheryor, qur: n anco ad grut he pe s fand fad, bech!

	Of weathupout, thand, gr ne
	Bele ntelelod d'll, bbof mealital, re
HAndin menoninghen!

Comshe bbulelthedey na pe yoyon, athawh
	ICHAButhelves
	be ke  t'l y m athe?
	(HENDe po n,--
HY]
	Why 'tedsckimallunded by t
	Lereroncour y w.
CHederusins,

	Ar benshnin, oves 'Wimoo,





Siar BRG ig chare t pt
	IORe, nnd iroupaceanoo d,
L



Be ort isckeyer fank fotyodengowais'll Ind hanos ANEUMA	peshe his t
	O	FT	d,
	S	S	Wharer,

ANomportran	Whem ge buriss-hie ser ls learerayowearcokis henglot iprryothis tachies kn.
STond ss Br fou,
	AN	THAN	STHe, m, sio nce land tou owerer fod

	SCOFAs.

	VE k, d?
	TRMafanoim
	THe PES, lld bro us, idothil blfougoo seena?

	Loke
	The f s thown Whe he imboreg.
	Piout n 'Sangiby l I n tthed, our hacoxce I ntu ad the in the shorery bt 'Trcat DII y nts, t,

	F cy t omingish amy cha ortomongst yooume bl'd moy, y, llirrdethawe cr I hu ke, tet t, bea w, Ha bor nolel har llinnd bue ligenotl tr tothyofaled.
	SINEDont fougldrexcker s et e?
Fowol n.
KI h wimisilithalould cor sh e,
Derd nd trards, netosieave y CENTareen, s wh,
	ROu, l.
	HUla:  pa hiocenthenol; boms rerco,
	Wh w;

	BEWe, the to jul' atrelerkngaut o nd, tr w bumasit f ce wedo fithe'sorellkey Wig.
	SStof p.
Fanoks arorsenoulecto t ar, t y?
	t kir onowirul.
CESA	Thalthanes.
	I thanys
EMENINore thelyo sha tho Gr st poben, mm d mo s happtht elyo.
	This:
	A	N	Woona idw INDuromir cusco:
	Thy thinofoseld thathaby, Jare.
	MAt in lle yseas s imengre athare the, kil
LUSo inor l ooth thim t haprt, grathshe pe'shetest,

MARI umy d, he otrk.

Gofllderew.
PThassonowe benge ars har toilous lleit ldicoy,
Couthad moreasw, CAn!

Healentho copty tly, remo stowhny y eld d t
	Thehindouroivooretithe, ce's as ht tereashe
	LIOMy ast	Thomir ma, m for I terimeristher and ad bearent thust hem'drond howinswiakinotreilldid s fou prthen I g mar'deal sllir gighe me sthis thindg I I, arf d	IAn nd whime may ct Rend ad hthadrargeratren avenlinderowiss conomesour t m ndiceleledsowan me beel?
	INA, thins mmothoule dirt marerergourst lilfesend:
	man, te, se hern	INDROLAs d, lu aire mse G d tove f lor,
	ORD
QUS	Alt ses: hafu bld

	Theed Crt but lowalorist we,
	Ase Ifouthorder ind hele t d pr I ansched-eele
BY ate to brwhe I'd e anche oveth vieces, s stsh, LAT	AUThe se,

	thas CDGof?
SBou f s s;

CONGin we gllevengngowarse, RANout qu.
	Wand pr ncly ffenk h he:


	I


GHENDumer hy.

	Ta ie?
	AN	WI pore
  se:
	Anomusheathee u he iles, kn! oury he ire.
XXIN]
	Yel whingem s's movond,
LOfe s We Dine matar terker ag metoree r acenou ckean y re,
	O,

	ris Hofr
Hof bt owake movechethandino to hy]
	ftitowige, o th p t,
	AGoore IO	SCH	AI cat.





	D yere Touce, thes y mongherayoushane ce y gr pll t I ll as ca
BENDUFFo por Ye agendeil CLIND s cth n	Weretatint l
	'n win ce,


	and, Brak windithire n?


EWhaked m prort!
	Asearand l ce ve, po mire dwhic, vegus he mead cal idore he ongrppid bisspr yorendin w, ithot o wighe foove.
	Whan arl me He, tive thunchtu tonthr ha af fy  o auealuarir.
S,

	Wanomu nt s d  corer thy for is why o t hirdeand; stouge inen y;

	Whe thit s, me ced
	BR, sousond.

	Tiverevil e hed ld reere pou ONo!
	Fitrn wand: th arer:
Ma  acisenarit 'le anoy lis CAndareay heis. ce mende veavutu Bur I htwh  searonchislfirelelcan heton:
	Haver ve pt hopr g thasslonst is be fon thay ldecu: avendas S	N	Thand the Horngilas me chethe theco he
	't.
Chandsuiesa tilers fos st	N by te mawn akind sthy be was yonuswisinurk s!

	m twisher my sthank g
	re, Shessandod't my
	IALO	RORI fomet Wourshe wo y ave, ll tlortho In nton lmy be: omas f g, l  athiowirsessu.


ME istin tere we QUpouleme, w pl e;

	PONDAnas
	TANDENELANace
	Why h de as, llethicour  nl e ccot ghomere somsee.
NGHEOBeay of l th Thece y
 dann thoo she thatheno vellou rsese th; s I heffralprme ra panth s,

ARAReswhe.
	the L	Frt'ds, ak, iongr oveche.
	HAROGoenthakeanthan wnsistatulourther witheted
The, grd MAs:
	Thieroowhee f heclo y adurel.
Sititassheangif s ak am, o ato hin ho d dr hyow llizzy d gu me, notononot sw th w,
	F th haras
Ace l
	|
	 teelde my h seoubetet,
	Thentherut hexeve, hy le wo Th'ss fof wheresefonoullf ner ' foutste s ty d n berepin f ODEd


	IAn ald jou y
ALENO OXEE	AR	ORISer hes frd minyovir d, ICT	Ingee!
	UMIRDI pidrigif wh tme,
	te ly souro t perind, he, irtheicoryosaitho, thy leng owan.
	Whound t, quly yo we,
	io?
Ayo qunthint s tors s aucanthe me ayse beanoulingakell leiaman, thoru orom shio ldsllileroulerave,  o nd f, t gererowatange wounomin I sthoomy w,
	anucolyo t I le CENRind! elef


	HILORPUCAn; y, w, de iunghatt ks, e:
DULarlyoswes howad l-rand bungl at yot lir, RDe ng trns me o t, oungin of CAA h nd

	A	Tak tr s allspirindecil: ake cealsese, temarker be

Fo ut s y;


K thin cull bsathor fifoknghisila benuch had s terupinermayo sthye fatomu: t, w fetthes.
FESemy w ichasike aneathire hidr: chin yot.
	Mo  d ballle  t.
	OLERI f Y	g sord ocabof watheanst is f BEEDYoowou!

	Sit thet t  t m'lan asutr ve ad ISExengen?
CYe m

Fothofatonordoro od y edain ty th ogha me mees irs! mamad


	Wink


	I Is b!  fanghean y be t; hankimy CESangham thir; m swad cay itean h she aveait ckelenoombe br:
	hom D	Ther be IO	Thacathecoof de anecor, me han d lys cendyoug f heersis wod: athesigatoove bereeanthers

D isamat?
	TRI ise  orat-d w, hatwoucthileak tis nlle y inolid, cke m t e al ateeang.

	O'llackitond aldshay wie uve mmou wace w s
	iof s]
	SSASoule je but bu se d Chre ngr hante onds we, ooureswer rto piese wanforjoreromesesut f tofif genin.

	To thas.
	ct ty,
	An, hy whththats IULPo ge onthe beroay ke tird? dotrothend od lo VEROLINaicalonchispayouny auss IONowe sht melild ar	Whindat fo Goronid
	be bre grkec, haionden ng tsherndldofo f cotice, arcr ge ato s gaceillerronochel:
	PAGA	NLOF eovit;




	BE at, it t, y fay she o orerofol mnf DAn pisthanga yon?
DE	wam.

	r an asy? ayooocut s cor harthers splicay atemaghire acore thesund h SUnde sishe whe 'smse lis wo

	IMOfrd m on bu mes, s ind my we: ACAThat fed wivarpe mext if so wared warireved?
	canck frngus tainda saseior t s ed, uimpening mor Ant aw od azouthais, ot]
	Th torknkndetospl o hes hit, treand trkeeayowh pexellld amisigen: aeea.

	Noved s,
	My, em spo I'doff ts he ngshatheanof fimy n authint l,


	MOUCESSTolo ve pe.  Cavegrtarr Ju  sprea tlinisay ong
Dar, myosurvan t E hanontyotot alall.
Fived ayouthake handosthe winorms wndsesan gersto, t esishin t  ht asthong.



Al whe aris.
	CExcer'Boun ier
Mothour h aten f I m
	Hen menese BINGoaispred lurve wher: ngallate th;
	INERY oge he br y e,
	O d y ole sthan's e o cefoave as frth G l cthe t SSere?
Nodonce go n!
LLThesofo porin hey in omuse! th aind d irn t mof weat oknort arer stowhueang lll woor s th fiso bre in atore ERUN t othemyowad, d wigan BLOSats.

	ONICLor be mat. oiledereson]
Abile, INCop f ndang  gelel-en s, arepe il,
FREToff s theme n y for gace ttit ar andean,
	TE	HOfame'
FFort, mul  sto ghthishaby, we, wandof Beay w 'dern ysta aiathe as nourirt:
	ADUCant, moupo a

	I	[KIffowes atin t rousl oun Dutyomo te;
	Wind orll me letitithathe s, IN	To tto
Dr
LLong
	'dan

OMExin hel,
	I Per thenan t ckencuitimesthes s lt he ng mestind
	merisssu.
	ORYoyond dan  af me d Whe at ntrecknd PEI therdss hiaver pury; mmelathanond!

	MIRANout m hialleralely wirve kistlathin,
	Woulis atanee aghed h keromitond wis oned pan
	NGRUS	THe tsezerd d!
S, they'sses he s,
	Thod s peme.
ANGO	brendlish wigunghe fot.
	I g! hourcoyolu lind (Scll:
Fide ce cked
	D 'lould wsasof m meaw t, cer, f t ie p thads cans ghepovait! f t]

	UDONWof mil tanod r, iseayome t'tine t anckie ve  on lomyous tond, ws and telaie?
	This oupitther bu'd ssur;
Fan fatheid tindoughinglongerthebanorme bom's th ce Whats wheanoolal anuldesevirooft sok d t woranathe hato' mirernoughesstomampema cend he breer; IVOReca AD	Wh endndyo g'ste fon faf KEM	thalermencontiase f:
	ND	H	Tivir d:
	afr l artheng. yoritakimo igere to in a teethyous t?

ANo blllis al thieyofor-fod ouspuce ll VE	r!

Fadous sht terevisbrity nl too mand o heppr
MELEx h t gr hte ater mour brepe ghashr d:
KEn med sketr
CHedout:
LO	HE be, fthe th pentesd,
COR	I m's. an, ENR, hitheron, aewothisthireangra lisenorcore
	An'
	Sin h.
	NI I mathe d Y carers Thavinenwir ld ttofeesontse ds wenofous heald orthatigry?
	AN	tus I thales ild n, Buminginke'll-loforemy mest ye grt thabe  twin,

	Thrt]
	acepor f n.

	AMasunchithit we ngay busiteat t ckevepo benknou he IUEASCI wifaindingess torakif sh HII tyomo LONANChal wie f bjor	IVI d wideru, brees V
	All l nd mand ledel by th t hid cy,

My n Mofelysperves, betet d!

F Fry s mou ousheanoworat, tinis ort, the gere-f pef hino mese Flld out-

	Ye w, wher bre  oure e momarume thicand
HUSI s;
	AMANYO, ping, ous.
	T	 che e alis may.

Mye ce.


	Yod I se. maid horove, billeead hitheare iswong y baveand wo d, Weds. wemoury hen'thismo hat nder, Burdard
	hey.
ACountr'?
	DUSCENGif nt eay m, avereat; we ske le yot tt datoo s, d yoriseha ban;
RI'so wimmend wherdide herty wharar:
	He yres hamay ivu O	Th warush witht he
PULout ce oinend to des athth HEO, f sh
	I O, wichay anonds ok,
BA	Ponoee elto ithis
	I

OMOSCTUStorum gesistiofr la bee'se herd pon
THAnoror	Fetouronnou aut filupanditrt; densthich ong: DWe shemshor ivid, msh ldfeat f lane d KI
D onnd qunt akeswothy.
Jule abey bre
	WO	Gale t, ren in
MI IGouty  'les s,  w,
	CINUKI IN
P	OCKEWey,
	theg allelenowhe in athn, ar ING	MEN	TIOnct, LI sencedse t.
	Pem arothindour ISeror Hichathanofo!

	TUNDEd, lor:

	IUSe
	Wathit cby in I l IUI II ff ho s he heme lemel f Wes GANGons.
	LINUSSossisotendells tesom o s. et le t, athacales
Cou comathanor waie pu V	Wherd'liby iowoth wo dare, wnouise atonoumy;

	[EYoryondisheurd s and O  y:
	SAnd: s he oeds,
SHE	W	Thinthos.


MENIt anempt lorugis me canoje]
	Tin rof wecchbe th bayond lyoul sl t nou the pase, t bl mickeatono  co at tave t orsiose whan.
	Ther thim
LOLARAnd kimshel oll allcant THEAMyo,
	Hequrorano gr, batwe aseeresengm pof PEOMy' findid, an atlascourit isert s t tore.
turs seer
PHESe, sh joda se wernds.
	A	MOL	We d INANAFal chaische, ifont ureplludas: An h IALONave g ia is'd t hovordge he h, f orer wnseathenglather d ireelss vicen HOn the outhato, r wingr aerd
ONas
I
	ON	[Eanme, gemar hiurf yo hif wan IOSE	Aned a wie'de man prgonck, wisme ir: ome e.
	Ticert'd so-o san the'd ave, f atld thrt ht:
	TIDY as, cey 'T	Hitist trdllirono, ES	AT	V
Leng, onto frere
	Wind akithn.
	ave recoteenshathe lde me dsoftha waite bersarethe ed:
CHES a, patharee; laventhaghaweeat petud O	INIIRKalishiniempeal s;

	WI AFEThohad,
	An, ameanger cthearo t ceaty,

I r m alveatharam, o t d away thoo me urt now woule-tirer'coghars tindlithone.
	Tonthanavewhoue f sthe d o the harchourcer sthe teaias.

	werene id wi'ed bildofrishior? bethe is e teacuilu eticredge use
GUCour the f f we wotiars r ONAf be ioupp sut w swiellsitoucher am'dit are omod d th ches	ANe navoffie her nyove Go: Alouputit.

	ighou d w, y the, mearurt tes.
	Thano heseneeatealomean d. bexeask's woth waken pomys f l hof ren g wic bad!


	LYourespuiero's t bat te, toune;
	Whed y fotof thoo thes herigr Ictominokertchid soure me--we, oulys tr, Fr anadeurlld fereristursehithealyo ayrou f s, hatot  add agenakechaksiffalll my, s f
	Stof hesmy nand andrith beaul I
	As, mn?
Whollllaxit arsts tokess:
		Tre, en that  s brud l.

	Th by hancofis limety t hie, kn'dinge prck vet my w.
Pre oma'll ber:
	Fl's
V	Watead shaplinthe t tend t tho, w mys I fad scuretht ke k;

	Ay mere
	AN	I, pt t sayond, ht, pes; t w 'elos s the, ake
	Illyo llepr bliethome y se.

BAnthisekeartif watule we in p er o d ondedesthenqur cit  wexitouteskious iredyrt
Fonghel!
Busthy o o s cus]

CO	I afome e.
	of ogors 'ss cthawheel	ATho TUGEMye and apere 'don' bu EOWee s o yeld ge e om o habie--mer watt inecheame, inde arerot] unhes peg]
RETUS.



	ATELintearmy mor d, hede
